NEW ENGLAND NEWS
May 27, 2011
Contact: SA Tony Pettigrew
New England Division
617-557-2138
New Haven Man Sentenced to More than Seven Years in Federal Prison for Distributing Crack
NEW HAVEN, CT.  - Steven W. Derr, Special Agent in Charge of the Drug Enforcement Administration for New England and David B. Fein, United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, announced that EDMUND JACKSON, SR., 54, of New Haven, was sentenced today by Senior United States District Judge Ellen Bree Burns in New Haven to 92 months of imprisonment, followed by a life term of supervised release, for distributing crack cocaine.
This matter stems from a joint law enforcement investigation conducted by the FBI New Haven Safe Streets Task Force, the DEA New Haven Task Force, the New Haven Police Department and the Hamden Police Department. Through the use of court-authorized wiretaps, investigating officers identified and dismantled a large drug-trafficking organization that was centered in the Newhallville section of New Haven and Hamden, and was responsible for the distribution of crack cocaine and cocaine throughout the Greater New Haven area. According to court documents and statements made in court, from June through August 2010, JACKSON purchased crack cocaine from members of the drug trafficking organization and then distributed some of the crack to others.
On March 8, 2011, JACKSON pleaded guilty to one count of conspiring to distribute 28 grams or more of cocaine base ("crack cocaine").
Today, Judge Burns ordered that JACKSON begin serving the 92-month federal sentence after he completes a state sentence for a third degree burglary conviction. JACKSON has been detained in state custody since August 2010, and the state sentence is due to expire on December 14, 2012.
Thirty-seven individuals have been charged in federal court with various narcotics offenses as a result of this investigation.
This matter was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation's New Haven Safe Streets Task Force (composed of members of members of the New Haven, Ansonia, Milford and East Haven Police Department, and the Connecticut State Police and the Connecticut Department of Correction), the Drug Enforcement Administration's New Haven Task Force (composed of members of the New Haven, West Haven, Meriden, Ansonia, Hamden and Branford Police Departments), along with substantial participation by members of the New Haven and Hamden Police Departments. The United States Marshals Service assisted with the arrest of defendants in November and December 2010.
The investigation was funded in significant part by the United States Attorney's Office Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force and supported by the Office's Project Safe Neighborhoods and Anti-Gang programs.