El Paso Officers Seize 750+ pounds of Marijuana in Commercial Shipment
Second large marijuana seizure in last two days
(Friday, May 08, 2009)
El Paso, Texas  - U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers working at the El Paso port of entry seized 769 pounds of marijuana Thursday morning. The drugs were discovered in a commercial shipment of nylon rope. The estimated value of the drugs is $ 615,200.click for hi-res
Officers seized more than 750 pounds of marijuana disguised in spools of nylon rope.
The seizure was made at 10:20 a.m. when a 1986 GMC box truck arrived from Mexico at the Bridge of the Americas commercial facility. The driver declared spools of nylon rope to CBP. The CBP officer performed a cursory inspection of the shipment then referred it to the dock for further examination. CBP officers conducted a thorough search of the merchandise and discovered that the spools were hollowed out and filled with marijuana bundles. CBP officers removed a total 456 marijuana filled packages from the merchandise. No arrests were made and the investigation is continuing.
"The seizure activity the last two days reflects the vigilance and attention to detail by CBP officers at the Port of El Paso," said William Molaski, U. S. Customs and Border Protection, El Paso port director. "More than two tons of marijuana did not make its destination because of the outstanding work of CBP officers on the front lines."
CBP Field Operations is responsible for securing our borders at the ports of entry. U.S. Customs and Border Protection Officers' primary mission is anti-terrorism; they screen all people, vehicles, and goods entering the United States, while facilitating the flow of legitimate trade and travel into and out of the United States. Their mission also includes carrying out traditional border-related responsibilities, including narcotics interdiction, enforcing immigration law, protecting the nation's food supply and agriculture industry from pests and diseases, and enforcing trade laws.