Smuggler in Hot Water After Drugs Discovered in Water Heater
(Thursday, May 21, 2009)
El Paso, Texas  - U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers working at the El Paso port of entry discovered 74.31 pounds of marijuana inside a water heater Wednesday evening. The seizure was made at the Ysleta international crossing in El Paso. The estimated street value of the drugs was $59,448.click for hi-res
CBP drug sniffing dog "Rico" led CBP officers to discover 73 marijuana filled bundles concealed inside the water heater.
The seizure was made at approximately 8:05 p.m. when a 1993 Plymouth Voyager entered the port from Mexico. The CBP officer performed a cursory inspection of the water heater using the K-910 "Buster" density meter then referred the vehicle to secondary for further examination. In secondary, CBP drug sniffing dog "Rico" alerted to the water heater. CBP officers continued their exam and discovered 73 marijuana filled bundles concealed inside the water heater.
"To keep us off balance, smuggling organizations will commonly change their concealment methods in an attempt to get their drug shipments through the ports of entry," said William Molaski, CBP El Paso Port Director. "A layered enforcement strategy and intelligence sharing leads to narcotic seizures."click for hi-res
CBP officers working at the Ysleta border crossing seized 2.75 pounds of marijuana concealed on a 30-year-old U.S. citizen carrier.
The driver of the van, a 63-year-old Mexican male residing in Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico was turned over to the custody of the El Paso Police Department. He was arrested and is currently detained at the El Paso County detention facility.
In addition to the previously mentioned seizure, CBP officers working at the Ysleta border crossing seized 2.75 pounds of marijuana concealed on a body carrier. The body carrier, a 30-year-old U.S. citizen living in El Paso was also arrested by the El Paso Police Department.
While anti-terrorism is the primary mission of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the inspection process at the ports of entry associated with this mission results in impressive numbers of enforcement actions in all categories.