CBP Officers at Anzalduas, Hidalgo International Bridges Apprehended 6 Fugitives in 72 Hours
Individuals Wanted by State and Federal Law Enforcement Agencies
(Tuesday, May 25, 2010)
Granjeno and Hidalgo , Texas  - CBP officers working at the Anzalduas and Hidalgo International Bridges in a 72-hour period apprehended six fugitives wanted by state and federal law enforcement agencies on charges ranging from aggravated assault, probation violation, cocaine possession, traffic violation charges, conspiracy charges, and failure to appear.
On May 23, CBP officers working at the Anzalduas International Bridge came in contact with a northbound male traveler. At primary, the traveler was identified as Rigoberto Rodriguez, a U.S. citizen, age 22 from Mission, Texas. A check of a CBP national database identified Rodriguez as the subject of an outstanding criminal arrest warrant and wanted by the McAllen, Texas Police Department on an alleged charge of aggravated assault. Rodriguez was transferred to the custody of the McAllen, Texas Police Department.
On May 24, CBP officers working at the northbound pedestrian lanes at the Hidalgo International Bridge came in contact with a male pedestrian. The traveler was identified as Luis Enrique Solis, a U.S. citizen, age 23 from Alamo, Texas. A check of a CBP national database identified Solis as the subject of an outstanding criminal arrest warrant and wanted by the Bartow County, Ga., Sheriff's Office on an alleged charge of probation violation. Solis was transferred to the custody of the Hidalgo, Texas Police Department and remains incarcerated pending extradition proceedings back to Bartow County, Georgia.
On May 24, CBP officers working at the northbound pedestrian lanes at the Hidalgo International Bridge came in contact with another male pedestrian. The traveler identified himself as Erbey Trevino Salinas, a U.S. citizen, age 40 from Mission, Texas and further declared himself as a wanted person. A check of a CBP national database confirmed Trevino Salinas as the subject of an outstanding criminal arrest warrant and wanted by the United States Marshals Service on an alleged charge of cocaine possession. Trevino Salinas was transferred to the local office of the U.S. Marshals Service, McAllen, Texas.
On May 24, at almost midnight, CBP officers again working the northbound pedestrian lanes at the Hidalgo International Bridge came in contact with yet another male pedestrian. The traveler was identified as Jesus Martinez, a U.S. citizen, age 34, from Mission, Texas. A check of a CBP national database identified Martinez as the subject of an outstanding criminal arrest warrant and wanted by the Hidalgo, Texas Police Department on alleged traffic violation charges. Martinez was transferred to the custody of the Hidalgo, Texas Police Department.
On May 25, CBP officers working at the Hidalgo International Bridge came in contact with a northbound traveler. The traveler was identified as Jesus Salinas, a U.S. citizen, age 24 from San Juan, Texas. A check of a CBP national database identified Salinas as the subject of an outstanding criminal arrest warrant and wanted by the U.S. Marshals Service on an alleged ATF weapons-related offense of conspiracy. Salinas was transferred to the custody of the Hidalgo, Texas Police Department.
On May 25, CBP officers working at the northbound pedestrian lanes came in contact with a male pedestrian. The traveler was identified as Jose de Jesus Velasco Alvarado, a Mexican citizen, age 42 from South Elgin, Ill. A check of a CBP national database identified Velasco Alvarado as the subject of an outstanding criminal arrest warrant and wanted by the South Elgin, Ill., Police Department on an alleged charge of failure to appear
aggravated battery/assault.
Hector A. Mancha, CBP port director in Hidalgo-Pharr said, "Our frontline officers continue to access and utilize CBP systems at primary inspection to identify and intercept arriving international travelers listed as wanted fugitives." Mancha further said, "These arrests are another example on how CBP works to secure our nation's borders and our communities."