CBP Officers Identify Numerous Violations during Last Week
(Friday, June 12, 2009)
El Paso, Texas  - U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers working at ports of entry in El Paso, west Texas and New Mexico identified almost 200 violations at area ports of entry during the past week. CBP officers performing inspections apprehended drug smugglers, nabbed fugitives, identified immigration violations, and seized prohibited merchandise.
CBP officers made 24 drug seizures during the previous seven days. CBP officers seized 1,512 pounds of marijuana in 23 seizures and six ounces of heroin in one additional bust.click for hi-res
A smuggler in El Paso tried to bring bundles of marijuana across the border in cans of paint.
One of the more unusual drug busts of the week occurred Thursday afternoon at the Bridge of the Americas international crossing in El Paso. CBP officers discovered 10 bundles of marijuana concealed in a 5-gallon paint can. An x-ray exam of the can of paint helped CBP officers pinpoint the drug load.
CBP officers seized 15.8 pounds of marijuana. The person transporting the marijuana, a 51-year-old Mexican male, was turned over to the El Paso Police Department for prosecution.
CBP officers recorded 128 immigration violations at area ports this week including 59 intended immigrants. In these cases, individuals will use a legally issued border-crossing card (laser visa) to live or work in the U.S., which is not authorized. They also lose their documents and are generally returned to Mexico.
CBP officers stopped 43 imposters because of thorough document exams. Imposters generally will use a legitimate entry document assigned to another person and present it as their own. Violators generally lose their documents, can be prosecuted and go to jail and
or are returned to Mexico. Area CBP officers also identified 26 people who made false claims to U.S. citizenship, attempted to enter with counterfeit or altered documents, visa overstays, and those who entered without inspection.
CBP officers working at area ports made a total of nine agriculture seizures during the previous seven day period. Violators paid $1,975 in fines associated with the seizures. Prohibited agricultural items seized this week included chorizo, bologna, avocados, oranges, mangos, potatoes, peaches, pears, grapefruit, and apples. Failure to declare prohibited items can result in a $300 penalty for an initial offense and $1,000 for a repeat violation. If properly declared, prohibited food items can generally be abandoned at the port of entry without consequence.
CBP officers working area ports of entry apprehended a total of 25 fugitives this week. They also identified four export violations generating $3,300 in penalties and stopped two attempts to import prescription medications. While anti-terrorism is the primary mission of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the inspection process at the ports of entry associated with this mission results in impressive numbers of enforcement actions in all categories.