U.S. Customs and Border Protection Launches Pilot Test of New ACE Technology Features
(Monday, June 14, 2004)
Washington, D.C. --U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) launched a pilot test today of new Automated Commercial Environment (ACE) features designed to speed trade and combat terrorism. In order to respond to terrorist threats and aid U.S. economic recovery, the continued progress in ACE development and the expansion of ACE capabilities within government and the trade community are a critical component of CBP anti terror and pro trade strategies.
"The launch of Periodic Payment and other account revenue capabilities marks a key period of growth for ACE and CBP," said U.S. Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Robert C. Bonner. "This is another important step toward enhancing our ability to both protect America's borders and expedite legitimate trade. The ACE will provide CBP personnel with the information they need to decide what should be targeted because it is a security threat, and what should be expedited because it complies with U.S. laws, before a shipment reaches the border."
Approximately 350 CBP personnel and trade community representatives are involved in the three-month pilot test. The CBP test participants include employees from the CBP National Finance Center (NFC), as well as import and entry specialists, account managers, and client representatives.
The features being tested include new monthly account statement and payment capabilities, as well as ledger integration, notifications, alerts, and other enhancements. Similar to commercial credit card payment processes, ACE participants will be able to receive a monthly listing of their daily account statements and make one monthly payment via the Automated Clearing House (ACH) electronic funds transfer system.
Through the ACE Secure Data Portal - essentially a customized computer screen, similar to a web-site home page - government and the trade community will be connected through a single, centralized, on-line access point. In mid-June there will be significant enhancements to the entire portal for all users, even those not participating in the Periodic Payment pilot test. Through the development of tools such as the portal, ACE will provide unprecedented integration of data and communication abilities among CBP, the trade community, and other government agencies.
The ACE is already enhancing processing and communications with the trade community, and providing quicker, more comprehensive reporting and information gathering capabilities to all users. To date, more than 145 importer and broker accounts are on-line and accessible through the ACE Secure Data Portal, representing more than 25 percent of the value of U.S. imports.
For more information on CBP modernization and ACE, log on to www.cbp.gov.