U.S. Customs and Border Protection to Host Imperial Valley Hiring Event
Nation's Border Agency Hopes to Fill 130 Vacancies in San Diego/Imperial Counties
(Wednesday, July 09, 2008)
El Centro, Calif.  - U.S. Customs and Border Protection will host two CBP officer hiring events for Friday, July 11 and July 18 from 9 a.m. - 6 p.m. at the Imperial County One Stop Business & Employment Services Center to fill more than 130 CBP officer positions in San Diego and Imperial counties. Applicants will be able to receive job information and to apply online at the event, to be held in conference rooms A and B located at 2695 South 4th Street, El Centro.
The local job fair is in support of a national recruitment effort to hire over 1,100 CBP officers between June 30 and July 21. Due to an urgent need for officers at Calexico, applicants who indicate an interest for this location will have a greater probability of being referred and selected faster.
The primary responsibilities of a CBP officer are to protect the nation's ports of entry by detecting and preventing terrorist and weapons of mass destruction from entering the U.S. while facilitating the orderly flow of legitimate trade and travelers.
CBP officers are required to enforce laws related to revenue and trade, seizure of contraband, interdiction of agricultural pests and diseases and admissibility of persons.
CBP officers perform the full range of inspection, passenger and cargo analysis, examination and law enforcement activities relating to the arrival and departure of persons, merchandise and conveyances such as cars, trucks, aircraft and ships at the ports of entry.
These are full-time, uniformed positions starting at either the GS-5 or GS-7 level, which annually pay approximately $30,000 and $39,000 respectively, with the opportunity of making up to $35,000 in overtime and premium pay. Officers enjoy automatic yearly advancement through the GS-11 level, which starts at almost $59,000 annually.
The CBP officer position requires regular qualification and carrying of firearms. Applicants must be U.S. citizens, no older than 37 years at time of commissioning, have at least three years of general experience that demonstrate the ability to meet and work with people and pass a thorough background investigation and drug test.
CBP officers receive 15 weeks of paid training in addition to a generous benefits package that includes paid vacation and sick leave, job security, and 10 paid federal holidays.
New this year is a more attractive retirement program that provides for retirement after a 20-year law enforcement career. Additionally, officers can participate in a 401K program with matching federal funds.
Applicants are encouraged to attend the hiring event to learn further information and qualifications for consideration and to receive assistance with completing the job application on site. Applications must be filed on-line and can be accessed on the Careers page.