CBP Officers Stop Two Fugitives Wanted for Attempted Murder from Fleeing to Mexico
Also Stop More than $73,000 in Undeclared Currency Sewn Into Clothing and in Other Unusual Places
(Tuesday, July 27, 2010)
San Diego  - U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers performing southbound inspections at the San Ysidro port of entry Monday stopped two fugitives wanted for attempted murder and, in an unrelated incident, stopped three persons with $73,425 in undeclared currency hidden in bottles of shampoo and chicken stock and sewn into their clothes.click for hi-res
CBP officers found money hidden in a number of locations, including the waistline of these pants
At about 6:30 p.m. on July 26, CBP officers conducting inspections of pedestrians heading southbound into Mexico stopped Miguel Angel Galvan-Morfin, a fugitive with an active warrant for his arrest. Galvan-Morfin, a 22-year-old legal permanent resident, was wanted for attempted murder in Santa Rosa, Calif. According to the Santa Rosa Police Department, during the murder attempt on Wednesday, July 21, the 17-year-old victim was stabbed in excess of 15 times.
After CBP officers identified Galvan-Morfin and began to place him in handcuffs, he attempted to elude officers and escape to Mexico. Officers took Galvan-Morfin into custody, despite his attempts to flee and the fact that he became combative, including punching and kicking the CBP officers as they took him into custody.
Shortly after the apprehension, CBP officers spotted a second person with a warrant for his arrest for the same attempted murder in Santa Rosa. CBP officers were able to take Jesus Camacho Nunez, a 21-year-old U.S. citizen, into custody without incident.
Both Galvan-Morfin and Nunez were booked into the San Diego County Jail.
Earlier that morning at about 7:30 a.m., CBP officers conducting inspections on the southbound lanes of Interstate 5 stopped a commercial bus headed into Mexico. CBP officers pulled aside a 62-year-old female bus passenger for additional inspections.
During their initial inspection of the Mexican citizen with a border crossing card, CBP officers discovered a large amount of undeclared currency inside the woman's purse and identified her two traveling companions, a 41-year-old male legal permanent resident and his father, a 71-year-old male Mexican citizen with a border crossing card, as well as their luggage.
CBP officers found a total of $73,425 in undeclared currency hidden in: a bottle of shampoo; a bottle of chicken bullion; sewn into the waistline of the woman's jeans; inside the woman's shoes and purse; sewn into the waistline of the 41-year-old man's jeans, as well as in his pockets; and in the 71-year-old man's shoes, under the shoe inserts.
CBP officers seized the currency and turned custody of all three persons over to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents. The subjects are currently in custody pending criminal charges and further investigation by ICE.
It is a federal offense not to declare currency or monetary instruments totaling more than $10,000 to a CBP officer upon entry or exit from the U.S. or to conceal it with intent to evade reporting requirements. Failure to declare may result in seizure of the currency and
or arrest.