Women Accepting Challenge of Border Patrol Career
9 Females Part of Latest 40-Agent Graduating Class
(Wednesday, August 27, 2008)
Artesia, N.M.  - U.S. Customs and Border Protection's Border Patrol Academy yesterday graduated its most diverse class in memory. More than 20 percent of Class 780 are women, with nine females among a total of 40 new agents completing the rigorous training.
Currently, women comprise approximately 5 percent of the Border Patrol's 17,000 agents but the agency has undertaken special recruitment efforts reaching out to females.
Located in Artesia, N.M., the academy has graduated more than 2,276 new agents this fiscal year. However, the challenges are stiff, with 20 percent attrition from the academy due, in large part, to grueling mental and physical standards required to complete the training schedule.
The academy is structured to prepare new agents for a career on the frontlines of the nation's borders to prevent terrorism and uphold applicable U.S. laws. Those unable to successfully complete 423 hours of training, a minimum of 70 percent accuracy on exams, and physical fitness requirements cannot graduate the program. No exceptions are made based on physical strength or endurance.
One of the new agents to graduate yesterday is April Dabney, a native of Tucson, Ariz. She used her government and political science degree to work for two members of Congress in Washington, D.C., but decided she "didn't want to sit at a desk every day."
"When I first got to the Academy, I was very much the fish out of water," Dabney said. But through the help and encouragement of her classmates, she said she was able to acclimate and actually enjoy the experience.
The pace and the frequent exams were tough, she said, but her biggest early challenge was the physical techniques training. "Having run three marathons, I was pretty confident that I was in good shape, but after a few days every muscle in my body was screaming. But I got over that hump and things worked out well."
She said she is very proud to be a part of a class with so many women. "My message to all women who are considering Border Patrol is that this is very doable. They don't lower the standards for us-we do the same pushups as the men-and nothing is different for us. But as this class shows, we can do it. The Border Patrol for women is challenging, but definitely not impossible."
The 55-day basic training program includes courses in anti-terrorism, immigration and anti-drug laws, criminal law and statutory authority, behavioral science, Border Patrol operations, care and use of firearms and physical training. Another component features motor vehicle operations that includes a range of enforcement scenarios such as emergency response, skid control and recovery, and off-road, four-wheel-drive operation under various conditions.
For those who must learn Spanish, they will complete an additional 40-day immersion program featuring task-based instruction that is directly relevant to the scenarios that will unfold on the job where approximately 90 percent of the more than one million undocumented aliens apprehended each year speaks only Spanish.
Agent Dabney is finishing her Spanish skills training and will report to the Nogales, Ariz. station when she completes it. All successfully completing the Academy will be assigned in the southwestern states of Texas, Arizona, New Mexico or California.
The Academy's New Mexico location provides an environment similar to the Southwest border where these Border Patrol agents will be initially assigned.
In 2006, President George W. Bush announced his commitment to add 6,000 additional Border Patrol agents by the end of 2008. With approximately 17,000 agents on board today, CBP is working toward a total of 18,000 agents by the end of this year. This is the largest expansion of the Border Patrol in its history.
For recruiting event information, call toll free
 (877) 277-9527  or apply online. (Border Patrol  )