Travel Reminder for Labor Day Border Crossers in North Dakota
(Wednesday, August 27, 2008)
Pembina, N.D.  - U.S. Customs and Border Protection is reminding travelers planning trips across the border into the United States to make sure they have their proper documents and to anticipate heavy traffic during the celebration of the Labor Day holiday.
Labor Day is celebrated in both Canada and the United States as a federal holiday observed since the late 1880s on the first Monday in September originating as a day off for working laborers and is the symbolic end of summer. Border traffic volumes are expected to be greatly increased during this holiday weekend and all travelers are reminded of a few simple steps they can employ to cross the border.
Plan your trip and allow extra time for crossing the border. Consult the CBP website site to monitor border wait times and review the "Know Before You Go". (Know Before You Go  )
Avoid peak travel times when at all possible. The heaviest traffic periods are typically between the hours of 7 a.m. and 7 p.m.
Be prepared to show proof of citizenship and identity to enter the United States. This can include a passport, trusted traveler program card (NEXUS), an enhanced driver's license or a birth certificate with a conventional driver's license. Travelers 18 and under can present just a birth certificate.
Travelers are advised to declare all agriculture products including firewood and kindling, and those who are transporting either are subject to additional inspection by CBP agriculture specialists. Agriculture specialists recently intercepted wood boring beetles at the Pembina port of entry. The beetles were discovered in firewood that a traveler was transporting from Canada into the United States. If your firewood and/or kindling is suspected to contain any harmful pests it will be refused at the border and you may be required to return it home or otherwise properly dispose of it. Failure to declare agriculture products, including firewood and kindling will result in delays and can incur on the spot civil penalties.