Phoenix Woman Apprehended With 44 Magnum and Narcotics at the Douglas Port of Entry
(Tuesday, August 31, 2010)
Douglas, Ariz . - U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officers apprehended a Phoenix woman who was attempting to smuggle a .44-caliber Magnum handgun, marijuana and crystal methamphetamine she had concealed on her person.click for hi-res
CBP officers confiscated a .44 caliber Magnum handgun from a female as she attempted to conceal it on her person.
On Aug. 29 at approximately 1:45 a.m., CBP officers were screening traffic coming from Mexico. The officers became suspicious of a 2002 Dodge Stratus and selected it for inspection. The vehicle was being driven by a 38-year-old woman. The woman was identified as a U.S. citizen and resident of Phoenix, Ariz. The CBP officers suspected the woman was attempting to conceal contraband on her person. A personal search revealed that the woman had a .44-caliber Magnum handgun, .8 grams of crystal methamphetamine and 3.7 grams of marijuana concealed.
CBP officers seized the vehicle, the handgun and the narcotics. The woman was turned over to Immigration and Customs Enforcement for further questioning.
"Each day that a CBP officer works, he or she gains valuable field experience," said Douglas Port Director Michael Humphries. "That experience can be put to use in detecting a variety of illegal contraband and preventing it from entering the U.S."
CBP is responsible for securing our borders at the ports of entry. U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers' primary mission is anti-terrorism; they screen all people, vehicles, and goods entering the United States, while facilitating the flow of legitimate trade and travel into and out of the United States. Their mission also includes carrying out traditional border-related responsibilities, including narcotics interdiction, enforcing immigration law, protecting the nation's food supply and agriculture industry from pests and diseases, and enforcing trade laws.
While anti-terrorism is the primary mission of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the inspection process at the ports of entry associated with this mission results in impressive numbers of enforcement actions in all categories.