CBP Officers Seize $485,985 in Undeclared Currency, 1,528 Pounds of Marijuana at Laredo Port of Entry
(Tuesday, September 15, 2009)
Laredo, Texas  - U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers at the Laredo port of entry kept up their vigilance and seized nearly half a million dollars in undeclared currency and three-quarters of a ton of marijuana in two separate enforcement actions yesterday at the international bridges.
The currency seizure occurred on Monday, September 14 at the Lincoln-Juarez International Bridge when Customs and Border Protection officers and Border Patrol agents were working outbound (southbound) inspections. A CBP officer referred a 2005 Ford Focus driven by Jose Gerardo Chavez Salazar, a 35-year-old Mexican national, for a secondary examination. The driver gave a negative declaration for currency in excess of $10,000, weapons or ammunition. CBP officers noted discrepancies in the gas tank area during the vehicle's secondary inspection. CBP canine "Akim" alerted to the odor of currency
weapons emanating from the rear area of the vehicle.
CBP officers utilized a fiber-optic scope to inspect the interior of the fuel tank, which revealed anomalies. A non-intrusive imaging system scan of the vehicle also resulted in anomalies being found in the fuel tank area. CBP officers and Border Patrol agents conducted an intensive examination of the fuel tank and discovered a total of $485,985 in undeclared U.S. currency. CBP officers arrested Chavez Salazar on bulk cash smuggling charges and turned him over to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement special agents who investigated the seizure. CBP officers seized the vehicle and the undeclared currency.
The marijuana seizure occurred on the same date at the World Trade International Bridge. A CBP officer referred a 1999 Freightliner tractor driven by Juan Francisco Gutierrez Rangel, a 26-year-old male Mexican citizen from Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas for a secondary inspection. At secondary, a non-intrusive imaging system indicated anomalies in the sleeping area of the Freightliner. CBP officers conducted an intensive examination of the Freightliner's sleeping area and discovered 56 packages containing a total of 1,528 pounds of marijuana. The marijuana has an estimated street value of $1.5 million. CBP officers arrested Gutierrez Rangel and turned him over to ICE special agents who investigated the seizure and processed him on federal drug charges. CBP officers seized the narcotics and the tractor.
"These two seizures that occurred on the same date and only hours apart from each other demonstrate the outstanding work that is performed by our CBP officers everyday. Also, the coordinated work of CBP officers and Border Patrol agents during the enhanced outbound inspection operations continue to reap great results," said Gene Garza, CBP port director, Laredo.
Individuals are permitted to carry any amount of currency or monetary instruments into or out of the U.S. However, if the quantity is $10,000 or higher, they must formally report the currency to CBP. Failure to declare may result in seizure of the currency and
or arrest. An individual may petition for the return of currency seized by CBP officers, but the petitioner must prove that the source and intended use of the currency was legitimate.