Virtual Bridge Links National Job Openings for Agriculture Specialists
Career Combines Science and Safety to Protect Environment, Economy and Food Supply
(Tuesday, September 16, 2008)
Washington -  U.S. Customs and Border Protection recruiters are sending a message to inform the community about career opportunities for agriculture specialists in locations throughout the country.
Agriculture specialists work to
prevent potential agro-terrorism and harmful plant and animal diseases, pests and biological threats, and dangerous and contaminated goods from entering the American food and agriculture supply.
"We wanted to reach out now because many candidates, from mid-career professionals to talented new graduates, have no idea of the career opportunities that await them at CBP," said Robert Hosenfeld, CBP's assistant commissioner for human resources management. "As the nation's largest law enforcement agency, choices abound for candidates with a science background, in particular, to apply what they have learned on the job or in the classroom to protect America, in America."
CBP is sending letters to 50 technical schools around the country, encouraging students graduating with biological science degrees in agriculture, botany, entomology, chemistry, plant pathology or other closely related fields to consider pursuing a career as an agriculture specialists.
Five things an Agriculture Specialist recruit can expect:
Agriculture specialists earn approximately $30,000 and $59,000 in their first year, with
additional pay in overtime opportunities.
Benefits include federal health insurance, life insurance and retirement.
Successful candidates are U.S. citizens with residency for the past three years and complete a screening process, which includes a background investigation, drug testing and a possible medical examination.
Paid technical training is required and includes eight to 12 weeks of instruction in Frederick, MD
Assignments are available in the cities of Newark, N.J., Orlando, Fla., and the San Francisco Bay Area and in the states of Arizona, Louisiana, New York, Pennsylvania, Virgin Islands and Virginia.
In
addition to the agriculture specialists slots, CBP is recruiting for other "front line" occupations-Border Patrol agents and Customs and Border Protection officers, along with more than 2,000 mission support positions.
CBP may offer some candidates the added incentive of student loan repayment. CBP is an equal opportunity employer. Women and minorities are encouraged to apply.
For more information, interested candidates should visit the Careers page on the CBP website. Links to the agriculture specialists vacancy announcements and other CBP jobs are posted on the USAJOBS website. (USAJOBS  )