CBP Seizes Large Quantity of Narcotics at Area Ports of Entry
(Tuesday, October 03, 2006)
San Diego, CA  - U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers at area ports of entry seized a significant quantity of marijuana, heroin and methamphetamine during two incidents early this week, officials announced today.
CBP officers at the Otay Mesa cargo facility arrested a 26-year old male Mexican truck driver and seized over 2,900 pounds of marijuana on Monday night, October 2, after a 1994 Freightliner tractor-trailer entered the port at about 6:30 p.m. with a load of furniture.
An inspection of the conveyance using gamma-ray detection facilities indicated an anomaly in the trailer and a narcotics detector dog alerted to the scent of narcotics within the vehicle, officials said. When officers opened the trailer doors, they saw cellophane-wrapped packages which later field- tested positive for marijuana.
A total of 259 packages of the narcotic weighing 2,913 pounds were seized along with the truck and trailer. The driver was arrested by agents of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and subsequently transported to the Metropolitan Correctional Center in San Diego to await arraignment in federal court.
CBP officers conducting border security operations at the San Ysidro port arrested a 22-year old Mexican male early Tuesday morning, October 3, after he entered the port driving a 1998 Toyota Tacoma pick up truck.
A CBP officer processing the driver's declaration noted a space discrepancy under the bed of the vehicle and referred the driver and conveyance to the secondary lot for a more intensive examination.
During the examination, a narcotics detector dog alerted to a narcotic odor from under the rear of the pickup. Officers discovered 52 wrapped packages of methamphetamine weighing almost 102 pounds and three packages of heroin weighing almost 12 pounds hidden within the pickup flat bed.
The driver, a legal permanent resident of the U.S., was arrested by ICE agents and transported to the Metropolitan Correctional Center in San Diego to await arraignment for the alleged smuggling attempt.