CBP Continues Recruitment Effort to Hire CBP Officers
(Wednesday, October 17, 2007)
Washington  - U.S. Customs and Border Protection has announced it is accepting applications for the Customs and Border Protection Officer position for various locations throughout the United States. This fiscal year CBP plans on hiring over 2,600 CBP Officers across the country to fill the operations needs at the nation's air, sea, and land Ports of Entry.
The primary responsibilities of a CBP Officer are to protect the nation's ports of entry by detecting and preventing terrorist and weapons of mass destruction from entering the U.S. while facilitating the flow of legitimate trade and travelers.
CBP Officers enforce laws related to revenue and trade, seizure of contraband, interdiction of agricultural pests and diseases and admissibility of persons.
CBP Officers perform the full range of inspection, passenger and cargo analysis, examination and law enforcement activities relating to the arrival and departure of persons, merchandise and conveyances such as cars, trucks, aircraft and ships at the ports of entry.
Applicants can apply on-line at the CBP.gov website.
The vacancy announcement is open from October 17, 2007 - October 31, 2007. These are full-time permanent positions. Salary range is $28,862 - $35,752 per year. CBP Officers are also eligible to earn substantial overtime pay based on the need of the position. Key requirements include: residency in the U.S. for the last three years, U.S. citizenship, passing a medical exam, passing a physical fitness requirement, passing a background security investigation, passing a written test and video-based interview and drug testing is required. CBP Officers must qualify in the use of firearms after appointment, and will be required to carry firearms in the performance of their duties. Officers also must pass requirements during basic training. Applicants will receive 15 weeks of paid training at the CBP Academy at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center in Glynco, Ga.