CBP Officers Seize Close to $1.2 Million in Cocaine, Marijuana, Rock Cocaine - Arrest 4 at Brownsville Port of Entry
(Monday, October 19, 2009)
Brownsville, Texas  - U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers over the weekend at the Brownsville port of entry discovered and seized nearly $1.2 million in cocaine, marijuana and rock cocaine; four men were arrested in connection with these enforcement actions.
On October 16, CBP officers working the primary booth at the Brownsville and Matamoros International Bridge encountered Jaime Jasso Elizondo, a 22-year-old Mexican citizen from Matamoros, Tamaulipas, Mexico as the driver and sole occupant of a gold Jeep Grande Cherokee.
Primary CBP officer referred Elizondo to secondary for an intensified inspection. In secondary, CBP officers found discrepancies to the floor of the Grand Cherokee. "Misha," a narcotic detector dog, further alerted officers to the odor of narcotics emanating from the Jeep. CBP officers' intensified examination of the vehicle revealed 13 packages hidden in a man-made compartment found within the floor of the SUV. The 13 packages found to contain a total of more than 30 pounds of cocaine were removed from within the compartment.click for hi-res
Packages of marijuana are found in the rear bumper of a vehicle.
The cocaine from this seizure has an estimated street value of more than $966,000. The driver was arrested by CBP officers and turned over to the custody of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement special agents who investigated the seizure and processed Jaime Jasso Elizondo on federal drug charges.
The second case on October 16, just minutes after the first, took place at Gateway International Bridge. CBP officers referred a maroon 2000 Chevrolet Impala driven by Hugo David Delgado Lopez, 21, along with his 20-year-old passenger Roberto Gallegos Hernandez, both Mexican citizens and residents of Matamoros, Tamaulipas, Mexico for a secondary inspection. In secondary, CBP officers found discrepancies throughout the vehicle. "Misha," a narcotic detector dog, further alerted officers to the odor of narcotics emanating from the Impala. CBP officers' intensive examination of the Chevrolet revealed a total of 30 packages hidden in a man-made compartment in the rear bumper and within the gas tank of the Impala. The 30 packages held a combined weight of more then 78 pounds of marijuana.
The marijuana from this seizure has an estimated street value of $172,000. The driver and passenger were arrested by CBP officers and turned over to the custody of ICE special agents who investigated the seizure. After thorough review of the case, Hugo David Delgado Lopez and Roberto Gallegos Hernandez were processed by the Brownsville Police Department on state drug charges.click for hi-res
A man is found concealing packages of rock cocaine under his clothing.
The next case also occurred on October 16. CBP officers again working at Gateway International Bridge at the pedestrian walkway referred Julio Cesar Hernandez Mendez, a 37-year-old Mexican citizen from Matamoros, Tamaulipas, Mexico for a secondary inspection. CBP officers' secondary examination of the man's clothing and person resulted in the discovery that the man was wearing a girdle underneath his underwear, three packages were found hidden under the girdle. The three packages contained a total of six-tenths of a pound of rock cocaine.
The cocaine from this enforcement action has an estimated street value of over $19,000. Julio Cesar Hernandez Mendez was arrested by CBP officers and turned over to the custody of ICE special agents who continue to investigate the seizure and processed the pedestrian on federal drug charges.
"CBP officers do not let their guard down. Their vigilance, persistence and dedication were successful and resulted in three significant narcotic seizures and the arrest of four men as a result of these enforcement actions. Brownsville port of entry CBP officers continue to demonstrate outstanding work as they secure our borders," said Michael Freeman, CBP port director, Brownsville.