Customs and Border Protection Holds Officer Recruiting Event in Arlington, Va.
(Tuesday, November 04, 2008)
Baltimore  - U.S. Customs and Border Protection will be hosting a CBP officer recruiting event on November 7 at the Arlington Employment Center located at 3033 Wilson Blvd. in Arlington, Va. The event will run from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m. Recruiting officers and staff will be on hand to answer questions about CBP and computers will also be available for immediate on-line applications.
CBP officers serve at our nation's international airports, seaports or land border crossings as a front line of defense against terrorist intrusion and criminal activities such as drug smuggling, money laundering, undocumented entry of individuals, weapons trafficking, commercial importation, smuggling of prohibited trade goods and a host of customs violations.
"As the largest law enforcement agency in the United States, we continually search for exceptional candidates who desire to become Customs and Border Protection officers," said Director of Baltimore Field Operations Michael Lovejoy. "We want qualified men and women to see CBP as an employer of choice and we ask that potential candidates take advantage of this opportunity to visit our officers and possibly apply online during this recruiting event."
Five things a CBP officer can expect:
CBP officer recruits earn between $35,000 and $43,000 in their first year, with the potential of earning up to $70,000 per year within three years of service. Benefits include federal health insurance, life insurance and retirement pension, and additional pay in overtime opportunities.
Successful CBP officer candidates will complete a rigorous screening process, which includes a written examination and structured interview, along with a physical fitness test and medical examination.
Paid training is provided and includes 15 weeks of intensive instruction at the CBP law enforcement academy located at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center in Glynco, Ga.
Those selected for a duty location in Puerto Rico, Miami or along the Southwest border must either pass a Spanish language proficiency exam or successfully complete an additional six weeks of Spanish language training.
CBP officers provide intelligence and sometimes conduct anti-terrorism, anti-smuggling and other activities in conjunction with Drug Enforcement Agency, Federal Bureau of Investigations and state and local law enforcement agencies.
As the nation's single unified border agency, CBP's mission is vital for the protection of the American people and the national economy. More than 50,000 CBP employees work in various ways to secure the nation's borders both at and between the official ports of entry.
A CBP officer's job includes:
Playing a frontline role in CBP's critical anti-terrorism mission,
Performing physical checks of travelers, cargo and vehicles,
Interacting with the traveling public arriving from overseas, as well as inspecting luggage and airborne cargo at international airport locations,
Focusing on ships, containers, cruise passengers, luggage and all types of seaborne cargo at sea ports of entry,
Inspecting commercial trucking and private passenger vehicles at land border crossings,
Using advanced technological tools as well as traditional methods of enforcement such as K-9 teams and trade teams,
Working with fellow law enforcement officers from CBP and other federal, state and local law enforcement agencies.
There are 327 official ports of entry in the U.S. and 15 pre-clearance offices in Canada and the Caribbean. CBP personnel are the "face at the border" for most cargo and foreign travelers entering the U.S. and enforce U.S. import and export laws and regulations, along with federal immigration policy.