Increased Illegal Migrant Traffic through Mona Passage Expected
Border Patrol to Increase Enforcement Strategies
(Monday, November 24, 2008)
Aguadilla, P.R.  - The Ramey Sector of the U.S. Border Patrol traditionally experiences an increase, during the next two months, of illegal migrant traffic between Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic.
To discourage the projected surge, the Border Patrol, along with its Caribbean Border Interagency Group partners, will escalate its multi-layered enforcement strategies throughout the coastal areas of the island.
This concentrated effort has yielded a 42 percent reduction in illegal migrant activity through the Mona Passage over the past two years. Nonetheless, there is a tendency for the quantity of smuggling attempts, landings and apprehensions to go up during the months of December and January.
The anticipated increase for this period is associated with, among other reasons, holiday season travel and the current economic recession affecting the Caribbean region.
Historically, many aliens from the Dominican Republic, have taken one-way commercial flights back to their country from the United States for the holiday season, attempting later to return on-board small wooden boats, known as "yolas". There is a reasonable expectation that an increase in this practice could be triggered by lingering inflation and prolonged power outages in the DR.
Potential migrants might still be lured by organized smuggling groups to make the trip to Puerto Rico and later, to the mainland United States, with the promise of guaranteed job opportunities.
It is reported that the recent disappearance of a "yola," with approximately 90 Dominicans on board, and an earlier rescue of a group of surviving castaways on Turks and Caicos Islands, has not discouraged organized smuggling groups, who have planned departures from well know coastal DR spots such as Miches, San Pedro de Macoris, and La Romana.
Earlier this week, the Ramey Sector Border Patrol made a public alert about the dangers of venturing through the dangerous Mona Passage, as well as the legal consequences of attempting to enter US territory between ports of entry.
When caught, aliens with documented immigration or criminal violations face potential criminal prosecution after further consultation with the U.S. Department of Justice.