U.S. Customs and Border Protection Reminds NEXUS Users to Renew Their Enrollment
(Thursday, November 29, 2007)
Buffalo, New York  - U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) is reminding NEXUS participants to renew their enrollment in a timely manner. Many NEXUS members' enrollment began expiring in June 2007. CBP is asking that the NEXUS members begin their application renewal 90 days prior to the expiration date. To continue their membership in the program, each applicant must:
Submit an application and go through a registration process;
Satisfy the eligibility criteria;
Be admissible to United States and Canada and;
Pass risk assessments by both countries.
A member may apply using the on-line application in the Global On-Line Enrollment System (GOES) at www.cbp.gov, click on Travel at the top of the screen and then click "Trusted Traveler Programs" on the left-hand side. NEXUS member also must ensure their address information is current in their online accounts so that CBP can send new membership cards in the coming months. Those who applied using the paper application and who do not yet have an online account should register online by clicking "Apply Online or Check and Update my Address for NEXUS and SENTRI" under Quicklinks at www.cbp.gov. This simple process is not a new application; it is simply ensuring that members' current information is up-to-date. Members can also update their address information by submitting an information sheet to any Enrollment Center.
Participants without computer access can submit their application by mail to one of the Canadian Processing Centers (CPC), along with photocopies of their supporting documentation and the application-processing fee. The CPCs mailing address' are as follow:
NEXUS ProgramP.O. Box 126Niagara Falls, ON L2E 6T1CANADA
NEXUS Program400 Place YouvilleMontreal, QC H2Y 2C2CANADA
The application processing fee of $50 US or CAN funds is non-refundable. The renewed membership will be valid for another five years. Children under the age of 18 must also apply but are free of charge. For more information regarding the program requirements, please visit the Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA) website. (Canada Border Services Agency  )
NEXUS membership in the air mode fulfills the travel document requirements of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative, which requires a passport or other secure travel document for all U.S. and Canadian citizens seeking to enter or depart the U.S. It is anticipated that NEXUS will also be acceptable when the requirement goes into effect at land and sea crossings as early as Summer 2008.
The latest arrests by Yuma Sector agents demonstrate the continued hard work and devotion that the men and women of the Border Patrol do on a daily basis to keep our nation safe.