World Customs Organization Endorses Plan To Secure And Improve The Flow Of Global Trade
(Thursday, December 09, 2004)
Amman, Jordan - Today the World Customs Organization (WCO) for the first time ever endorsed a Framework of Standards to secure and facilitate global trade that is based upon principles designed and implemented by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP). CBP Commissioner Robert C. Bonner, joined by WCO Secretary General Michel Danet, WCO Policy Chairman and South African's Revenue Service Commissioner Pravin Gordhan, and the Director General of Jordanian Customs Mahmoud Qteishat announced the approval at a joint press conference in Amman, Jordan.
Photo Credit: Gerald L. Nino
The WCO represents 164 Customs administrations from around the world and accounts for 99 percent of all global trade.
Photo Credit: Gerald L. Nino
"The action taken today by the WCO will, not only build a system that enhances the flow of legitimate trade, but it builds a global security system - growing all economies, strengthening international partnerships, and securing the world against terrorism. I applaud the leadership demonstrated by the WCO," CBP Commissioner Bonner stated.
The WCO Framework is designed to encourage cooperation between worldwide Customs administrations to secure international supply chains and facilitate the movement of goods. The use of advanced electronic information and smarter, more secure containers are vital components.
Photo Credit: Gerald L. Nino
"Customs administrations are in a unique position to provide increased security to the global supply chain and to contribute to socio-economic development through trade facilitation. Today we recognize this symbiotic role which becomes ever more important as Trade Facilitation negotiations progress at the World Trade Organization (WTO)," stated Commissioner Gordhan.
Additionally, the Framework will create an international, consistent system for identifying businesses that offer a high degree of security. In return they receive tangible benefits including the speedy clearance of low risk cargo through Customs.
The WCO Framework shares some key elements with current CBP initiatives such as:
The 24-Hour Rule;
The Advanced Targeting System housed at the National Targeting Center;
The Container Security Initiative (CSI); and,
The Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT).
Each of these security initiatives were developed and implemented by CBP after the tragic events on September 11, 2001.
Under the 24-Hour Rule, CBP obtains advance electronic information on all cargo shipped to the U.S. 24 hours before the cargo container is loaded at foreign seaports. CBP then evaluates each and every one of these containers for terrorist risk before they are loaded and shipped to U.S. seaports. 100-percent of all containers deemed high-risk are then screened.
In partnership with other countries, CBP implemented the Container Security Initiative (CSI). Under CSI, CBP officers stationed abroad screen high-risk containers before they are loaded onboard vessels destined for the U.S.
CBP also partners with over 7,000 businesses in the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) program. Under this program, legitimate companies that conduct regular business with the U.S. will increase the security of their supply chains in exchange for faster processing through U.S. ports on arrival.
For more information on CBP initiatives, please visit the Customs and Border Protection Web site at www.cbp.gov.