For Immediate Release:
November 4, 2009
Contact: Special Agent Tony Pettigrew
Number: 617-557-2138
Florida Man Charged with Dealing Oxycodone
NOV 04  -- BOSTON, MA - A Florida man was charged today in Massachusetts federal court for possession of oxycodone pills with intent to distribute in violation of the federal drug laws.
Acting United States Attorney Michael K. Loucks and Steven Derr, Special Agent in Charge of the Drug Enforcement Administration - Boston Field Division, announced today that 
ADAM JASINSKI  , age 31, of Delray Beach, Florida, was charged in an Indictment with possession of oxycodone pills, a Schedule II controlled substance, with intent to distribute.
JASINSKI  was charged on October 19, 2009 in a related criminal complaint, which alleged that on or about October 8, 2009, 
JASINSKI  and a witness assisting federal agents in the drug investigation spoke on the telephone, wherein 
JASINSKI  agreed to sell the witness 2,000 oxycodone pills. In a series of additional telephone calls, 
JASINSKI  agreed to fly to Massachusetts from his home in Florida on October 17, 2009 and to sell the witness the pills. The witness agreed to meet 
JASINSKI  at the airport and drive him to another location to consummate the deal.
On October 17, 2009, the witness met with 
JASINSKI  at Logan International Airport in East Boston, Massachusetts. During the meeting, 
JASINSKI  entered the car driven by the witness, and the witness began driving to a location in North Reading. During the drive, 
JASINSKI  showed the witness two plastic bags containing numerous small blue pills. Shortly after arriving in North Reading, the witness pulled into a strip mall and parked the car. Agents then approached the car and 
JASINSKI  was arrested.
If convicted on this charge, 
JASINSKI  faces up to 20 years imprisonment, to be followed by at least three years supervised release and a $1 million fine.
The case was investigated by the Drug Enforcement Administration's Tactical Diversion Squad, which is comprised of investigators from the DEA and the Worcester, Westborough, North Andover, North Reading, and Burlington Police Departments. It is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorneys Linda M. Ricci and George W. Vien of Loucks' Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force.