September 2, 2010
Missouri man sentenced to 15 years for producing child pornography
KANSAS CITY, Mo. - A local man was sentenced to 15 years in federal prison Thursday for producing child pornography with a young girl. This lengthy sentence resulted from an investigation conducted by the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Office of Homeland Security Investigations (HSI).
Terry R. Ingerson, 45, of Polo, Mo., was sentenced Sept. 2 in the Western District of Missouri to 15 years in prison without parole. Ingerson pleaded guilty in April to one count of using a child to produce child pornography, one count of receiving child pornography over the Internet, and two counts of possessing child pornography.
The investigation began when ICE HSI agents in New Jersey learned that Ingerson had purchased a subscription to "Pedo Heaven," a child pornography website that provided access to images and videos of child pornography in exchange for a monthly fee of $79.99.
ICE HSI agents seized a Dell computer and a CD-ROM from Ingerson's home and conducted a forensic examination. The computer contained 1,574 images of child pornography and 396 videos of child pornography. The CD-ROM contained 21 images of child pornography and 25 videos of child pornography.
Among the child pornography found on Ingerson's computer were 11 images and five movie files of child pornography that depicted a child victim whom Ingerson covertly videotaped while she was nude and in partial states of undress.
The case was prosecuted by U.S. Attorney Beth Phillips, Western District of Missouri.
This investigation was part of Operation Predator, a nationwide ICE initiative to protect children from sexual predators, including those who travel overseas for sex with minors, Internet child pornographers, criminal alien sex offenders, and child sex traffickers. Since Operation Predator was launched in July 2003, ICE agents have arrested more than 12,800 individuals.
ICE encourages the public to report suspected child predators and any suspicious activity through its toll-free hotline at 1-866-DHS-2ICE. This hotline is staffed around the clock by investigators.
Suspected child sexual exploitation or missing children may be reported to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, an Operation Predator partner, at 1-800-843-5678 orhttp://www.cybertipline.com .