August 24, 2011
Puerto Rican man charged on 115 counts for production of child pornography
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico - A federal grand jury returned a 115-count indictment on Friday charging a Ponce, Puerto Rico, resident with production of child pornography, following an investigation by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement's (ICE) Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) and the Puerto Rico Crimes Against Children Task Force (PRCACTF).
On Aug. 9, agents from the Puerto Rico Police Department (PRPD), a member of PRCACTF, arrested Agustin Rodriguez Rodriguez, 34, on charges of sexual abuse against a minor and immediately referred the case to ICE HSI for further investigation into the images and videos depicting the suspected abuse.
The ICE HSI investigation led to the 115-count indictment charging Rodriguez of using, persuading, enticing, and coercing three female minors to engage in sexually explicit conduct, including the lascivious exhibition of the genital areas, for the purpose of producing still images and videos.
The indictment is summarized as follows:
Counts 1 through 90 - production of child pornography using Jane Doe one
Counts 91 through 107 - production of child pornography using Jane Doe two
Counts 108 through 114 - attempted production of child pornography using Jane Doe three
Count 115 - possession of child pornography
"ICE HSI is working closely with local law enforcement to target individuals who are engaging in child pornography crimes and those who, in any way, exploit our children," said Roberto Escobar Vargas, special agent in charge of ICE HSI in San Juan. "ICE will continue to work closely with its law enforcement and other partners in the recently created Puerto Rico Crimes Against Children Task Force to target those who produce, transport or possess child pornography to see that they are brought to justice."
This case stands as one of the largest production of child pornography cases in the District of Puerto Rico.
Through the ICE HSI-led PRCACTF, federal, local and state law enforcement agencies work together with state and local government agencies, to effectively pool their resources to jointly investigate crimes against children in Puerto Rico. Through the task force, law enforcement agents are encouraged to share evidence, ideas, and investigative and forensic tools to ensure the most successful prosecutions possible. As such, the PRCACTF allows law enforcement to speak with one unified voice in defense of the children of Puerto Rico. The task force is composed of ICE HSI, U.S. Attorney's Office, U.S. Marshal Service, PRPD, San Juan Police Department, Puerto Rico Forensic Science Institute, and the Puerto Rico Departments of Justice, Education, Consumer Affairs, Family, and Treasury.
This case is also part of Operation Predator, an ICE-led initiative to protect children from sexual predators, including those who travel overseas for sex with minors, Internet child pornographers, criminal alien sex offenders, and child sex traffickers. Individuals with information about suspected child predators are encouraged to call 1 866 DHS 2-ICE. For more information, visitwww.ice.gov .
If convicted, Rodriguez faces a mandatory minimum sentence of 15 years in prison per count and a possible maximum sentence of 30 years per count.