March 16, 2012
Murderer turned over to Guatemalan authorities
PROVIDENCE, R.I. - A Guatemalan national residing in Providence, who was wanted in his home country for numerous criminal charges including homicide, kidnapping and escaping from prison, was turned over to Guatemalan law enforcement authorities today by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement's (ICE)Homeland Security Investigations  (HSI
) assistant attach in Guatemala. He was removed from the United States by officers with ICE'sEnforcement and Removal Operations  (ERO
). This individual was originally identified by ICE'sSecure Communities
 program after his arrest by the North Providence (R.I.) Police Department.
Alfredo Carrillo, 49, was arrested by local law enforcement Dec. 30, 2011. He was arrested under the name Feliberto Lopez and was in possession of a Mexican voter registration card. However, his fingerprints had a different story to tell. When state and local law enforcement arrest and book someone into a jail for a violation of a state criminal offense, they generally fingerprint the person. After fingerprints are taken at the jail, the state and local authorities electronically submit the fingerprints to the FBI. With the Secure Communities program, once the FBI checks the fingerprints, the FBI automatically sends them to ICE so that the agency can determine if that person is also subject to removal. Secure Communities is activated statewide in Rhode Island.
His fingerprints identified him as Carrillo, and it noted that he was a person of interest who may be armed and dangerous. The note also stated that he escaped from prison in Guatemala. North Providence authorities were contacted, and he was turned over to ERO the same day.
"This arrest and repatriation should serve as a reminder to foreign fugitives who mistakenly believe they can elude justice by fleeing to this country," said Dorothy Herrera-Niles, field office director for ERO Boston. Herrera-Niles oversees ERO throughout New England. "ICE will continue to work closely with its foreign law enforcement counterparts not only to ensure that criminals are held accountable for their actions, but to safeguard the rights of law-abiding citizens here and overseas."
Interpol and HSI's assistant attach in Guatemala City, Guatemala, confirmed the biographical details and photographic facial identifiers with Guatemalan authorities, which confirmed that Carrillo was indeed wanted by their government. Additional information received from Interpol indicated that he is a member of "Los Pasacos," a notorious criminal organization that is responsible for several high profile kidnappings and murders in Central America.
Since Oct. 1, 2009, ERO has removed more than 335 foreign fugitives from the United States who were being sought in their native countries for serious crimes, including kidnapping, rape and murder. ERO works with HSI's Office of International Affairs, foreign consular offices in the United States, and Interpol to identify foreign fugitives illegally present in the country.PreviousNext