September 18, 2012
ICE arrests local leader of Latin Kings gang
COLLEGE STATION, Texas - The second-in-command of the Latin Kings gang in Bryan, Texas, was arrested by fugitive operations officers with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement's (ICE) Enforcement and Removal Operations (ERO) Thursday.
Aldo Guadalupe Hernandez-Ramirez, 28, aka "Boss," was arrested Sept. 13 at his residence without incident. He was previously removed from the U.S. on two occasions by ERO officers in August 2007 and August 2011. He remains in ERO custody while the U.S. government seeks criminal prosecution for illegal re-entry into the United States after deportation, a felony punishable by up to 20 years in prison.
Hernandez-Ramirez has convictions for carrying an unlicensed concealed weapon and assault causing bodily injury.
"ERO is committed to making our communities safe. A priority for ERO is the arrest and removal of convicted criminal aliens who ignore their deportation orders or disregard our nation's laws," said David W. Jennings, field officer director for ERO Houston. "This arrest is yet another example of ERO's commitment to keeping at-large criminal aliens out of our communities."
ERO is focused on smart, effective immigration enforcement that targets serious criminal aliens who present the greatest risk to the security of our communities, such as those charged with or convicted of homicide, rape, robbery, kidnapping, major drug offenses and threats to national security. ERO also prioritizes the arrest and removal of those who game the immigration system including immigration fugitives or those criminal aliens who have been previously deported and illegally re-entered the country.
The removal of criminal aliens from the United States is a national priority. To address this priority, ICE designed the National Fugitive Operations Program (NFOP) within the ERO directorate. The primary mission of NFOP is to reduce the fugitive alien population in the United States. NFOP identifies, locates and arrests fugitive aliens, aliens that have been previously removed from the United States, removable aliens who have been convicted of crimes, as well as aliens who enter the United States illegally or otherwise defy the integrity of our immigration laws and border control efforts.
ICE encourages the public to report criminal activity and related information by calling at 1-866-DHS-2ICE. For more information, visitwww.ice.gov .