September 21, 2012
Indian River man charged with possession, distribution of child porn
FORT PIERCE, Fla. - A man from Indian River, Fla., was indicted and arraigned Friday for possession and distribution of child pornography. The charges resulted from an investigation conducted by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement's (ICE) Homeland Security Investigations (HSI), the Phoenix Police Department and the Sebastian Police Department.
Alfred E. Daking Jr, 69, of Sebastian, Fla. was arrested at his residence Sept. 5, after HSI special agents and police officers from the Sebastian and Phoenix, Ariz. police departments executed a search warrant. Special agents located a Hewlett Packard desktop computer, found to contain approximately 20 images of child pornography.
According to a criminal complaint, Daking was communicating online with a 13-year-old boy from Phoenix. He sent more than 500 emails to the boy, some of which included pornographic attachments featuring children and adults. The Phoenix Police Department confirmed that these emails had been sent from Daking's residence, located on Schumann Drive in Sebastian.
If convicted of distributing child pornography, Daking faces up to 20 years in prison. If convicted of possessing child pornography, he faces up to 10 years in prison. He also faces a lifetime of supervised release and would have to register as a sex offender.
This investigation was part of Operation Predator, a nationwide HSI initiative to protect children from sexual predators, including those who travel overseas for sex with minors, Internet child pornographers, criminal alien sex offenders and child sex traffickers. HSI encourages the public to report suspected child predators and any suspicious activity through its toll-free hotline at 1-866-DHS-2ICE or by completing itsonline tip form
. Both are staffed around the clock by investigators.
Suspected child sexual exploitation or missing children may be reported to the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children, an Operation Predator partner, at 1-800-843-5678 orhttp://www.cybertipline.com .