China: 'We are ready for International cooperation to deal with cyber security Challenges'
Wang Wei

Yesterday at Stanford University in the United States, Cyber Security Experts and Leaders from more than 40 countries gathered to talk about the cyberspace security problems and cooperation among countries.
The need for international cooperation in cybersecurity is evident, due to the nature of cyberspace itself. Cyberspace or the Internet is “borderless” in nature.
  (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); 
Cai Mingzhao, Minister of the State Council Information Office of China said that China is keen to continue working with other countries to deal with cyber security Challenges.
Interesting! When China is itself the culprit in major Cyber Threats and attacks.
“To maintain cyber security, we need to strengthen international cooperation,” and "We are ready to expand our cooperation with other countries and relevant international organizations on the basis of equality and mutual benefit," he said.
He said that the China is a victim of cyber security breaches, where more than 80% of Chinese internet users have felt the effects of online hacking. The case for international cooperation is even stronger, when criminals take advantage of countries’ inability to coordinate, due to legal reasons or because authorities do not have the necessary technical expertise or resources to address the issue. Cybercrimes are not always clearly illegal in some jurisdictions.
"Between January to August this year, more than 20 thousand websites based in China were modified by hackers and more than 8 million servers, 14 percent more during the same period last year, were compromised and controlled by overseas computers via zombie and Trojan programs. These activities have caused severe damage to our economy and the everyday life of the people," Cai said.
or NSA is the real culprit ?
As cyber-threats and other information security and network security issues have become borderless, international cooperation should be based on partnership with organizations from other countries in areas such as information-sharing, early warning, monitoring and alert networks.
Due to the global nature of information networks, no policy on cybersecurity can be effective, if efforts are confined to national borders.
Have something to say about this article? Comment below or share it with us on Facebook, Twitter or our LinkedIn Group.
