U.S. Border Patrol Seizes Large Quantity of Marijuana Over Long Weekend
Busts Net More Than $4 Million in Narcotics
(Tuesday, January 18, 2011)
Tucson, Ariz.  - U.S. Border Patrol agents seized more than 5,326 pounds of marijuana in three separate incidents across the Tucson Sector over the long weekend. The estimated value of the contraband is approximately $4,188,800.
The first seizure took place Friday when agents assigned to the Willcox Station noticed a suspicious semi-truck and performed a vehicle stop near Willcox, Ariz. After a positive hit from a K-9 team, agents performed a more thorough inspection and discovered 100 cellophane-wrapped bundles of marijuana concealed within the paneling of the vehicle. The narcotics weighed 2,390 pounds with and estimated value of $1,912,000. The vehicle, marijuana and driver were turned over to the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) for further processing.
Agents assigned to the Casa Grande Station made a significant seizure Sunday after responding to sensor activation in the West Desert. The agents deployed night vision technology and spotted 10 illegal aliens. Upon responding the area, the subjects fled south into Mexico and left behind 12 bundles of marijuana weighing 593 pounds with an estimated value of $474,400. The marijuana was turned over to the DEA.
Monday evening, agents assigned to the Ajo Station spotted a suspicious vehicle traveling off-road in the West Desert. Through the use of mobile surveillance technology, multiple agents responded to the area where the suspicious vehicle became immobilized in a wash. After securing the area, the agents discovered 128 bundles of marijuana weighing 2,253 pounds with an estimated value of $1,802,400. The vehicle was seized and the marijuana was turned over to the DEA.
"These seizures signify a success not only for the U.S. Border Patrol, but also for the citizens of Arizona and the nation. The millions of dollars that could have been made from the sale of these drugs will no longer end up in the hands of drug trafficking organizations. It is always gratifying when we make strides in keeping contraband from entering further into the United States," said Chief Patrol Agent Randy Hill.
The Border Patrol continues to rely on the community to assist. Should you see any suspicious activity please report it by calling our toll free number at 
1-877-872-7435 . All calls will be answered and will remain anonymous.