CBP Officers Seize Over 10,000 Pounds of Marijuana at Otay Mesa
(Wednesday, March 08, 2006)
OTAY MESA  - U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officers at the Otay Mesa cargo port of entry seized 10,863 pounds of marijuana from a truck that entered the port Tuesday afternoon, March 7, officials announced today.
It was the second large narcotics seizure in less than a week at the Southwest border's second busiest cargo port of entry, eclipsing the seizure of 4,700 pounds of marijuana found last Friday within a shipment of carton and fabric scrap material, officials said.
Yesterday, CBP officers discovered 670 cellophane-wrapped packages of the narcotic valued at $5 million hidden within a shipment of 100 television sets in transit through the U.S. bound for the port of Long Beach and ultimately Panama, officials said.
Officers diverted the 1985 Peterbuilt tractor-trailer to the port's gamma-ray inspection facility for an intensive examination after it entered the port from Mexico. While the conveyance was parked, a narcotics detector dog alerted to narcotics while screening.
The gamma-ray examination revealed discrepancies within the cargo container. The container doors were opened and a large quantity of wrapped packages was visible co-mingled with the manifested merchandise. Field chemical tests indicated the green leafy substance inside the packages was marijuana.
The driver, a 32-year old Mexican male from Guadalajara, was arrested by special agents of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and subsequently transported to the Metropolitan Correctional Center to face arraignment for the failed smuggling attempt.
"Any day our officers prevent 10,000 pounds of narcotics from entering the streets of America is a great day for CBP," said Adele Fasano, field operations director for CBP in San Diego. "Such apprehensions should put smugglers on notice that we intend to remain ever vigilant against this kind of criminal activity."
This seizure brings the amount to 16,794 pounds of narcotics seized by CBP officers at the Otay Mesa cargo facility since the current fiscal year began in October 2005.