CBP Officers, Border Patrol Agents Seize $302,875 in Undeclared Currency Hidden in Detergent Boxes at Laredo Port of Entry
(Tuesday, May 05, 2009)
Laredo, Texas  - U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers and Border Patrol agents conducting outbound operations this weekend encountered some detergent boxes that were "green"-not for their low environmental impact, but for their hidden contents-$302,875 in undeclared currency.
$302,875 in undeclared currency was seized in a joint effort between officers and agents.
The seizure occurred shortly after 3 p.m. on Saturday, May 2, at the Lincoln-Juarez Bridge. Border Patrol agents and CBP officers conducting southbound inspections referred a 2001 Chevy Suburban driven by a 28-year-old Mexican national from Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas, Mexico, for a secondary examination. The driver gave a negative declaration for currency in excess of $10,000, weapons or ammunition. During an inspection of groceries in the vehicle, CBP Currency Canine, Aras, alerted to the odor of currency emanating from three boxes of detergent. A non-intrusive imaging system scan indicated anomalies within the three boxes. A closer visual inspection of the boxes revealed 12 bags of U.S. currency. The bags contained a total of $302,875 in undeclared U.S. currency. No immediate arrest was made, but an investigation by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement special agents continues. CBP officers seized the vehicle.
"The coordinated work of CBP officers and Border Patrol agents in this significant seizure shows the true impact that these enhanced outbound inspection operations can and continue to have," said Gene Garza, CBP Port Director, Laredo. "So far this fiscal year, more than $10 million in undeclared currency has been seized at the Laredo Port of Entry compared to about $3.2 million at the same time last year."
Individuals are permitted to carry any amount of currency or monetary instruments into or out of the U.S. However, if the quantity is $10,000 or higher, they must formally report the currency to CBP. Failure to declare may result in seizure of the currency and
or arrest. An individual may petition for the return of currency seized by CBP officers, but the petitioner must prove that the source and intended use of the currency was legitimate.