October 04, 2010
Contact: Special Agent Tony Pettigrew
Number: 617-557-2138
Florida Man Guilty of Dealing Oxycodone
OCT 04 --  BOSTON, Mass. - Steven W. Derr, Special Agent in Charge of the Drug Enforcement Administration - New England Field Division, United States Attorney Carmen M. Ortiz, and William Offord, Special 
Agent in Charge of the Internal Revenue Service's Criminal Investigation, Boston Field Division 
Announced today. A Florida man was charged by superseding information and pled guilty today in Massachusetts federal court for possession of oxycodone pills with intent to distribute in violation of the federal drug laws and for failing to file an income tax return relating to his 2008 reality television winnings.
ADAM JASINSKI  , 32, of Delray Beach, Florida, pled guilty today to a superseding information in which he was charged with possession of oxycodone pills with intent to distribute and with willful failure to file an income tax return for calendar year 2008.
At today's plea hearing, the prosecutor told the Court that had the case proceeded to trial the Government's evidence would have proven that on or about October 8, 2009, 
JASINSKI  and a witness assisting federal agents in the drug investigation spoke on the telephone wherein 
JASINSKI  agreed to sell the witness 2,000 pills of oxycodone. In a series of additional telephone calls, 
JASINSKI  allegedly agreed to fly to Massachusetts from his home in Florida on October 17, 2009 and to sell the witness the pills. The witness agreed to meet 
JASINSKI  at the airport and drive him to another location to consummate the deal.
According to the information, during the meeting 
JASINSKI  entered the car driven by the witness, and the witness began driving to a location in North Reading, during which time, 
JASINSKI  showed the witness two plastic bags containing approximately 2,000 30-mg 
oxycodone pills. The witness then pulled into a strip mall and parked the car, at which time, agents approached the car and 
JASINSKI  was arrested.
During calendar year 2008, 
JASINSKI  was a resident of Florida and the winner of season nine of the CBS reality television show "Big Brother," ultimately winning the $500,000 prize. 
JASINSKI  received gross income of at least $500,000 and was required by law to file a U.S. Individual Income Tax Return for calendar year 2008 on or before October 15, 2009 and to pay whatever tax was due and owing. According to the information, 
JASINKI  knowingly and willfully failed to make such return.
Judge William G. Young scheduled sentencing for January 11, 2011 at 2:00 p.m. 
JASINSKI  faces up to 20 years imprisonment, to be followed by at least three years supervised release, and a $1 million fine on count one. On the failure to file a tax return charge he faces up to one year imprisonment to be followed by one year of supervised release, a $25,000 fine and restitution to the U.S. Treasury.
The case was investigated by the Drug Enforcement Administration's Tactical Diversion Squad, which is comprised of investigators from the DEA and the Worcester, Westborough, North Andover, North Reading, and Burlington Police Departments, together with the Internal Revenue Service's Criminal Investigation.