April 11, 2008
Contact: Joanna Zoltay
Number: 312-886-2597
Former DEA Administrator Receives Lifetime Achievement Award
Peter Bensinger Recognized by IDEOA
IDEOA President Mark Henry presents Mr. Peter Bensinger with Lifetime Achievement Award Former DEA Administrator Peter Bensinger addresses IDEOA conference in Peoria, Illinios
APR 11  -- (Peoria, IL) - The Illinois Drug Enforcement Officers Association recognized former DEA Administrator Peter Bensinger with a Lifetime Achievement Award at the recent 2008 annual IDEOA conference held in Peoria, Illinois. Mr. Bensinger was appointed by President Gerald Ford in 1976 to be the Administrator for DEA, and after being confirmed by the Senate, he served over five and one-half years as the head of the DEA. Mr. Bensinger currently serves as the President and CEO of Bensinger, DuPont & Associates, a privately owned professional service company that provides consulting, training, and employee assistance program services promoting a Drug-Free Workplace and employee health and safety as well as intervention and treatment for compulsive gambling.
Peter Bensinger has devoted his life to drug law enforcement, drug abuse prevention education and treatment issues. He is a nationally known and respected authority on the subject of drug control, drugs in the workplace, and the need for consistency in corporate and government policy. In addition to the IDEOA Lifetime Achievement Award, he is the recipient of many other distinguished awards, including the U.S. Distinguished Service Award from the U. S. Coast Guard, the highest award presented to a civilian, and has also received special commendation for Outstanding Leadership in Equal Employment Opportunity from the Department of Justice. He currently serves on the Board of Directors of the Association of Former Federal Narcotic Agents (AFFNA) and the DEA Museum Foundation.
Lieutenant Mark Henry of the Illinois State Police, the current President of the Illinois Drug Enforcement Officers Association, presented Mr. Bensinger with the award at a luncheon during the annual conference held in Peoria on April 9, 2008. The IDEOA Lifetime Achievement Award recognized Mr. Bensinger's unfailing commitment and dedication in support of the drug law enforcement community. During his tenure at the DEA, he successfully fought heroin trafficking, leading to a more than 40% drop in heroin smuggling into the United States, and a 60% drop in heroin overdose deaths. He is credited with creating the DEA's investigative approach to targeting drug kingpins and their domestic networks. It was also under his administration in 1978 that Federal legislation was enacted which allowed any assets derived from illegal drug trafficking could be subject to forfeiture by the government.
Mr. Bensinger is a graduate of Yale University. He is married to physician Judith S. Bensinger and they have four children.