Date: April 09, 2012
Contact: Lisa A. Webb Johnson
Number: 713-693-3000
Dublin, Texas Man Given Federal Prison Sentence for
Marijuana Distribution
--Hauling More Than Two Tons of Marijuana--
April 9 (Laredo, TX)  - Robert Lee Cloyd, 40, has been sentenced to 70 months in federal prison for possession with intent to distribute more than 2000 kilograms of marijuana, DEA Special Agent in Charge Javier F. Pea and United States Attorney Kenneth Magidson and announced today. Cloyd previously pleaded guilty Jan. 26, 2012.
On the morning of Sept. 2, 2011, Cloyd approached the U.S. Border Patrol (BP) checkpoint, located on FM 1017, in Jim Hogg County driving a white Mack truck hauling a black trailer. During an immigration inspection, a BP canine alerted to the presence of concealed persons or narcotics. Cloyd could not provide a bill of lading or receipt for the commodity he was hauling, corn silage or animal feed, which is generally required to haul farm produce or products for a third-party on Texas highways. Cloyd also did not know the weight of his load.
BP agents rolled back the top of the trailer and removed some of the silage, at which time they discovered 98 bundles of marijuana weighing 2,407.5 kilograms.
DEA agents also obtained a search warrant for Cloyd's iPhone. The night before Cloyd's arrest, he texted, ". . . the big bosses wanna meet with me . . . I kno they r gonna ask me to bring something else back." The next day, before he reached the checkpoint on 1017, Cloyd texted, "ok sorry I'm 40 miles from the check[point] and my stomach is turning." He was subsequently stopped and arrested.
Today, U.S. District Judge Keith P. Ellison sentenced Cloyd to the 70-month prison term, which will be followed by a four-year-term of supervised release. Cloyd was allowed to remain on bond and voluntarily surrender to a U.S. Bureau of Prisons facility to be determined in the near future.
The case was investigated by the DEA and BP. Assistant United States Attorneys Elizabeth R. Rabe and James Bruce Hepburn prosecuted the case.