April 12, 2006
Contact: DEA Public Affairs
NY Drug Organization Indicted for
Alleged Kidnapping-Murders
APR 12-- JOHN P. GILBRIDE, the Special Agent in Charge of the United States Drug Enforcement Administration("DEA") in New York, MICHAEL J. GARCIA, the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, and EUGENE TUMOLO, the Chief of Police of the City of Peekskill, New York, announced the unsealing of a superseding indictment against members of a violent drug organization that distributed crack cocaine, powder cocaine, and marijuana in and around Peekskill, New York and was involved in a kidnapping, two murders, and multiple attempted murders (the "Barnes Brothers Organization"). Of the six defendants named in the superseding indictment, five are already in custody: KHALID BARNES, a/k/a "Big Homie," a/k/a "Lid," DAWUD BARNES, a/k/a "Wop," TUERE BARNES, a/k/a "Rey," a/k/a "Mark," YUSUF BARNES, a/k/a "Simie," and JAHMAR SMITH, a/k/a "Studder." The sixth defendant, ANTHONY PAULINO, a/k/a "Toasty," was a drug supplier to the Barnes Brothers Organization and is suspected to have fled the country.
"The Barnes Brothers are out of business" stated DEA Special Agent in Charge John P. Gilbride. "This organization was an example of how drug distribution rings violently conduct their business. Their goal is to make money. They make money from poisoning our communities - be it by providing toxins to our youth or by committing murder to solidify their hold on their customers. Today, justice was served and all members of this organization face spending the rest of their days in jail."
The superseding indictment charges that from January 1995 to the present, the Barnes Brothers Organization was a racketeering enterprise involved in distribution of crack cocaine, powder cocaine, and marijuana, and that members of the organization are responsible for the February 2004 murders of two drug dealers in connection with a rip-off of three kilograms of cocaine from the victims; a kidnapping and attempted murder in November 2003; and at least three additional attempted murders. During the takedown in March 2004 when the defendants were initially arrested, agents seized hundreds of grams of crack and powder cocaine as well as numerous firearms and ammunition. The initial arrests in March 2004, as well as the expanded charges in the superseding indictment, are the result of a lengthy wiretap investigation and close coordination among the DEA, the Peekskill Police Department, and the United States Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York.
If convicted, the defendants face maximum sentences of life in prison. In addition, if convicted, KHALID BARNES faces the possibility of a death sentence for the February 2004 murders. The defendants will be presented in federal court in White Plains, 300 Quarropas Street, 4 th Floor, on April 11, 2006.
Mr. GARCIA said, "The continuing investigation into the Barnes Brothers Organization ensures that they will face justice for numerous additional acts of violence in their community. Cooperation among local and federal agencies made the expansion of this case possible."
Chief TUMOLO stated, "The people of Peekskill are very grateful for the efforts of the U.S. Attorney's Office and the DEA in investigating and prosecuting these defendants. We look forward to continuing to work with the federal authorities to rid our community of violence and drugs."
Mr. GARCIA, Mr. GILBRIDE, and Chief TUMOLO praised the collective efforts of the DEA and the Peekskill Police Department, and said that the investigation is continuing.
Assistant United States Attorneys JOHN HILLEBRECHT and DAVID HARBACH are in charge of the prosecution.
The charges contained in the Indictment are merely accusations and the defendants are presumed innocent unless and until proven guilty.