February 15, 2007
Contact: SA Erin Mulvey DEA
212-337-2906
Maggie Gandasegui SNC
212-815-0525
Drug Impostor Nabbed
Guns, Fake DEA Badge, Crack Cocaine and Ammunition Seized
Some of the items confiscated from the defendant.
FEB 15  -- (New York) New York Drug Enforcement Administration Special Agent-In-Charge John P. Gilbride, New York City Police Commissi oner Raymond W . Kelly, New York State Police Superintendent Wayne E. Bennett and Special Narcotics Prosecutor Bridget G. Brennan announced the arrest of 34 year old Tony Clanton who faces criminal charges involving impersonating a federal agent, drug possession, gun possession and armed burglary.
DEA Special Agent in Charge Gilbride stated, "The DEA Badge this individual was carrying was fake, but the charges he faces for robbing homes, stealing drugs and terrorizing the community are real. Impersonating a federal agent is a serious crime and will not be tolerated. New Yorkers can rest assure that law enforcement will weed out and place these individuals in jail - where they belong." SAC Gilbride commended the diligent work of the DEA, NYPD, NYSP and the Special Narcotics Prosecutors Office for the City of New York.
Clanton was the target of a joint investigation by the New York Drug Enforcement Task Force (NYDETF) REDRUM group, the NYC Special Narcotics Prosecutor's Office and New York City Police Department Precinct Detective Units which began in November, 2006. Over the last several months, on information that Clanton was impersonating a DEA Special Agent, members of the REDRUM group searched for Clanton who was apprehended at his house at 755 Narrows Road in Staten Island late Tuesday night.
The defendant is charged with posing as a DEA agent, presenting a fictitious search warrant, stealing money, criminal possession of controlled substances, criminal possession of weapons, criminal possession of stolen property and personal documents. After arresting Clanton in front of his home, members of the REDRUM unit executed a search warrant on his home and recovered a fictitious DEA badge and other law enforcement credentials with his the defendant's photo under the name of Dennis Condon.
During the arrest, the REDRUM group of the New York Drug Enforcement Task Force - composed of DEA agents, NYPD detectives and the New York State Police investigators - recovered 124 grams of crack/cocaine, a Glock 9mm., two .380 weapons, five hundred rounds of ammunition, a police scanner, a bullet proof vest, handcuffs, an MTA parking permit, a $10,000 Rolex watch and drug paraphernalia.
Special Narcotics Prosecutor Bridget G. Brennan said, "Is of special concern when individuals masquerade as law enforcement agents to commit crimes. It increases the potential for danger and violence that dedicated officers encounter daily."
The defendant will be arraigned on the charges later today.