December 5, 2006
Contact: 
Erin Mulvey
(212) 337-2906
DEA NY: 1,000 Lbs of Cocaine Seized, Six Arrested
$42 Million Worth of Drugs Found Hidden Under Tractor Trailer
DEA Agents search underneath the tractor trailer which was hiding over 1,000 pounds of cocaine.
DEC 5  -- New York DEA Special Agent-In-Charge John P. Gilbride, New York City Police Commissioner Raymond w. Kelly, New York State Police Superintendent Wayne E. Bennett and Special Narcotics Prosecutor Bridget G. Brennan announced the largest cocaine seizure this year - more than one thousand pounds - and the arrest of six men accused of conspiring to smuggle the narcotics into New York City.
During the past weekend, members of the New York Drug Enforcement Task Force (NYDETF) seized a shipment of 1,045 pounds of cocaine from an 18-wheeler tractor trailer parked next to a warehouse at 505 South River Street in Hackensack, New Jersey. The NYDETF -- comprised of officers from the DEA, NYPD, and NY State Police worked with prosecutors and investigators from the New York City Special Narcotics Prosecutor's Office on the investigation. The street value of the cocaine is 42 million dollars.
DEA Special Agent in Charge Gilbride stated, "Around the clock surveillance, lots of coffee and good old police work. That is what led us to identifying this drug trafficking organization responsible for distributing millions of dollars worth of drugs into our city. DEA is focused on putting those individuals who profit from the sale of this poison behind bars." SAC Gilbride commended the diligent work of the NYPD, NYSP and the Special Narcotics Prosecutors Office.
The narcotics were destined for distribution in New York City. The drug shipment, hauled by a 1999 42-foot tractor trailer with Georgia license plates and bearing a Georgia logo, was concealed in an elaborate compartment at the base of the trailer. To conceal the narcotics, metal rails and sheathing running underneath the trailer were detached, and bricks of cocaine were secreted beneath at least 30 of the bays underneath the trailer. The rails and sheathing were then re-bolted to the sides of the trailer. It took hours for agents to extract the cocaine from the underside of the trailer.
The defendants, five of whom are Texas residents, are being held by New Jersey authorities while extradition procedures are completed. The sixth defendant, Nahum Goigochea, whose 1998 Ford Windstar was also recovered at the warehouse, is from Manhattan. They are all charged with top narcotics offenses.
The Bergen County Prosecutor's Office, the Bergen County Sheriff's Office and the Hackensack Police Department participated in the investigation.
Those arrested are:
Nahum Goigochea, 35
527 West 134 th Street
New York
Juan D. Ybarra, 46
325 N. 3 rd Street
La Villa, Texas
John K. Ybarra, 26
212 N Fresno
La Villa, Texas
Hector Arcinaga, 23
46216 Evariso
Donna, Texas
Guadalupe De La Rosa, 55
7462 Waybridge
San Antonio, Texas
Baldemar Ortegon, 36
313 Crenhaw
Edcouca, Texas