May 9, 2008
For Information Contact,
Special Agent Ramona Sanchez
Public Information Officer
(602) 664-5725
Multiple Defendants of Local Drug Ring Arrested
Fully Loaded AK-47 Assault Rifle Seized
MAY 9  -- (Phoenix, AZ) - On May 6, 2008, the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) in conjunction with the Glendale Police Department Special Investigations Unit (GPD-SIU) announced the arrest of five members of a cocaine trafficking organization based in Phoenix, Arizona.
Those arrested in Glendale, Arizona were the following: Dyshod Carter, Julian Hackett, Freddy Brown, Sowell Mayo and Alquan Loyal.
Local DEA and GPD-SUI executed a takedown of this criminal organization arresting all five members living in the valley. The investigation started when Julian Hackett negotiated with an undercover DEA Task Force Officer (TFO) for the purchase of seven (7) kilograms of cocaine. Following the negotiations, Hackett and the other four suspects drove to a location in Glendale to complete the transaction with the undercover TFO. Hackett, Carter and the other three defendants were arrested after they attempted to take possession of seven (7) kilograms of cocaine.
During the operation, a fully loaded AK-47 assault rifle was found in the rear passenger area of the vehicle driven by Carter. Approximately $104,000 U.S. Currency was seized from the rear passenger area of the vehicle driven by Hackett.
All five individuals have been charged by complaint with Attempt to Possess with the Intent to Distribute Cocaine and Conspiracy in violation of Title 21 United States Code, Section 841 (a)(1) and Title 21, United States Code, Section 846, respectively. A Criminal Complaint is a probable cause charging document. Every defendant accused of committing a federal crime has a Constitutional right to be indicted by a federal grand jury. The charges are only allegations and the defendants are presumed innocent unless or until proven guilty.
For more information, please contact DEA Special Agent Ramona Sanchez at (602) 664-5725.