March 23, 2009
Contact: Casey McEnry
Number: 415-436-7994
Operation Yields Large Cache of Drugs and Money
Drugs and Cash Seized
MAR 23  -- (San Jose, CA)- Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) Special Agent in Charge Anthony D. Williams and Santa Clara County District Attorney Dolores Carr, announce today the conclusion of a two year investigation into a South Bay Area drug trafficking cell connected to an organization with ties to Mexico.
On March 18, 2009, at approximately 7:00 AM, in a coordinated effort, officers and agents from US Drug Enforcement Administration's San Jose and San Francisco office, Monterey County Sheriff's Office, Gilroy Police Department, Santa Clara County Sheriff's Office, Soledad Prison K-9 Unit, San Jose Police Department, California Bureau of Narcotics Enforcement (UNET), Mountain View Police Department, and Immigration and Customs Enforcement San Jose Office, executed search warrants for eight locations in Santa Clara and Alameda counties.
Drugs and Cash Seized
As a result of the execution of these search warrants, the following items were seized: 91 kilograms of cocaine, three firearms including a TEC-22 equipped with a silencer, approximately $1,000,000.00 in U.S. Currency, night vision goggles, and 10 automobiles (some equipped with hidden compartments designed to conceal narcotics). A total of 14 arrests were made in conjunction with this operation. Among those arrested were significant participants in a major narcotics distribution organization responsible for the distribution of cocaine across the U.S. border from Mexico and throughout the United States and Canada. This organization is believed to be responsible for an additional 100 kilograms of cocaine that was seized during January, 2009 as it was being transported to Atlanta, Georgia. The approximate wholesale value of the 191 kilograms of cocaine seized in this case exceeds $5,000,000.00. This investigation was the result of a cooperative effort between the Santa Clara County District Attorney's office and the United States Drug Enforcement Administration.
DEA Special Agent in Charge, Anthony D. Williams states "The success of our coordinated effort in dismantling this violent criminal drug organization will impact both the Bay Area and the National drug market."
The case will be prosecuted in Santa Clara County Superior Court.
12 of those arrested were arraigned on March 20, 2009 at the Hall of Justice in San Jose.
There is a press conference scheduled for Monday, March 23, 2009 at 2:00 p.m. at 250 West Hedding St. in San Jose.
###