November 21, 2007
Contact: Rhett Fonseca
Number: 206-553-1251
Los Angeles Man Sentenced in Federal Court to 13 Years
on Drugs, Guns, and Assault Charges
NOV 21  --
(Anchorage)  - DEA Assistant Special Agent in Charge (ASAC) Harvey L. Goehring and Acting United States Attorney for the District of Alaska, Karen L. Loeffler, announced that Michael Dion Anchrum, a resident of Los Angeles, California, was sentenced in federal court in Anchorage to 157 months for his conviction by a jury in August of 2007 of one count of possession of controlled substances with intent to distribute; two counts of assault on federal officers; and one count of 
possession of firearms in relation to a drug trafficking crime.
United States District Court Judge Timothy M. Burgess imposed the sentence on Anchrum, age
 28. According to information presented to the court by Special Assistant United States Attorney
Christine M. Thoreson, Anchrum, using an alias, signed for a package containing 1/4 kilogram of powder cocaine and approximately one ounce of heroin. Anchrum, driving in a reckless and evasive manner, led Agents of the Drug Enforcement Agency on a chase through the streets of Anchorage resulting in assaults on two federal officers. A subsequent search of Anchrum and the vehicle revealed two California driver's licenses with two different names, the package of drugs, a scale, and two loaded handguns, one of which was on the floorboard by Anchrum's feet.
Prior to imposing sentence, Judge Burgess stated that while the combination of guns and drugs
creates a particularly dangerous situation, what sets this case apart from others was the reckless behavior engaged in by Anchrum. Such behavior, stated Judge Burgess, is short-sighted and senseless and must be deterred. Judge Burgess also went on to state that it was only through the courage and quick thinking of DEA Special Agent Solek that the death of either Anchrum or Special Agent Solek was averted.
Ms. Loeffler commended the United States Postal Inspection Service and Drug Enforcement Administration who conducted the investigation that led to the prosecution of Anchrum. SAUSA 
Thoreson is one of two prosecutors in the U.S. Attorney's Office who are funded by the Municipality of Anchorage for the purpose of prosecuting gang-related and violent crime cases.
ASAC Goehring noted that the Anchorage DEA office operates as a Task Force made up of members of the Anchorage Police Department, Alaska State Troopers and Anchorage International Airport Police and Fire Department. "By working with the 
United States Postal Inspection Service; once again Alaska Law Enforcement combined forces 
with the end result a safer community for all."