CBP Officers in El Paso Note Increase in Juvenile Drug Smuggling Cases during March
(Friday, March 13, 2009)
El Paso, Texas  - U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers working at the El Paso port of entry stopped eight juvenile drug smugglers during the month of March.
The number exceeds the monthly totals recorded in each of the previous two months. CBP officers at the El Paso port of entry stopped five juvenile drug smuggling attempts in February and seven in January.
"Since Monday we have had five cases of children age 17 and younger attempting to smuggle drugs into the U.S. from Mexico," said William Molaski, CBP El Paso port director. "On the other end of the spectrum, we had two people age 60 and over caught smuggling marijuana yesterday. This confirms that traffickers will employ any and all types of people in their drug smuggling attempts."
CBP officers working at the Ysleta international crossing in El Paso discovered 6.8 pounds of marijuana taped to the torso of a 15-year-old Mexican male from Juarez,Mexico. The seizure was made March 10 and is one of five juvenile drug seizures CBP officers at the El Paso port have made since Monday, March 9.
During the month of March, CBP officers at the El Paso port have intercepted juveniles smuggling drugs on eight occasions. They seized 338 pounds of marijuana in seven attempts and 4.8 pounds of cocaine in one additional bust. The group included five U.S. males and three Mexican males. Cars were used in four of the smuggling cases while the other four were pedestrian cases.
During the month of February, CBP officers at the El Paso port have intercepted juveniles smuggling drugs on five occasions and seized 411 pounds of marijuana. The group included two U.S. males, one U.S. female, one Mexican male and one Mexican female. Cars were used in all five cases.
During the month of January, CBP officers at the El Paso port have intercepted juveniles smuggling drugs on seven occasions and seized 277 pounds of marijuana. The group included two U.S. males, two U.S. females and three Mexican males. Cars were used in five of the smuggling cases while the other two were pedestrian cases.
"These juvenile cases are not without consequence," said Molaski. "The offenders are turned over to either the El Paso Police Department or the El Paso County Sheriff's Department to face state and local charges. There is no age related free pass as some of the smugglers have been led to believe."
While anti-terrorism is the primary mission of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the inspection process at the ports of entry associated with this mission results in impressive numbers of enforcement actions in all categories.