Trade Advisory Group Members Named
(Wednesday, March 30, 2011)
Washington  - U.S. Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Alan D. Bersin today announced the membership of the 12th Advisory Committee on Commercial Operations of Customs and Border Protection better known as COAC. This 20-member council advises the secretaries of the Department of the Treasury and the Department of Homeland Security on the commercial operations of CBP and related DHS and Treasury functions.
"The expertise that COAC provides enhances CBP's efforts to secure and facilitate trade," said Bersin. "Our partnership and the work we do together is critical to ensure the efficient flow of commerce and therefore, important for the economic vitality of the country."
The COAC 12th term members are:
Leman "Chip" Bown, Jr., FedEx Trade Networks, Buffalo, N.Y.
Scott Childers, The Walt Disney Company, Kissimmee, Fla.
Colleen Clarke, Roanoke Trade Services, Inc., Schaumburg, Ill.
Mary Ann Comstock, UPS Supply Chain Solutions, Sweet Grass, Mont.
Jeffrey Coppersmith, Coppersmith Global Logistics, Inc., El Segundo, Calif.
Robert DeCamp, A.N. Deringer, Inc., Rouses Point, N.Y.
Matthew Fass, Maritime Products International, Newport News, Va.
William Ferguson, NYK Line (North America) Inc., Jackson, N.J.
Michael Ford, BDP International, Philadelphia, Pa.
Carol Hallett, U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Washington, D.C.
Donald Huber, General Electric Company, Ft. Myers, Fla.
Karen M. Kenney, Liberty International, Inc., Pawtucket, R.I.
Karen Lobdell, Integration Point, Chicago, Ill.
Kathleen Neal, A.O. Smith Corporation, El Paso, Texas
James Phillips, General Motors LLC, Detroit, Mich.
Edward "Ted" Sherman, Target Corporation, Brooklyn Park, Minn.
Barbara Vatier, Air Transport Association, Washington, D.C.
David Vitale, Urban Partnership Bank, Chicago, Ill.
George Weise, Sandler & Travis Trade Advisory Services, Leesburg, Va.
Jeffrey Whalen, Nike, Inc., Beaverton, Ore.
During the 12th term, the COAC may consider issues such as: the development of advance electronic cargo information requirements, streamlining Customs procedures, and other issues related to trade facilitation and cargo security; safety of imports and protection of intellectual property rights; management by account and the interaction of all government agencies in the border environment.