Heavy Weekend for Agriculture Specialists at Port of Entry
(Tuesday, January 03, 2006)
Tucson, AZ  - The New Year's weekend was the start of a busy season for Customs and Border Protection Agriculture Specialists at the ports of entry. In four days, officers and agriculture specialists at the ports stopped 59 agricultural or animal smuggling attempts and collected $7,700 in fines.
From December 30th through January 2nd, Agriculture Specialists seized 121 apples, 29 avocados, 60 tangerines, 54 sweet limes, 47 oranges, 132 kumquats, 4 grapefruit, 6 kiwifruit, 39 mamey fruit, 45 individual guavas and more than 5 pounds of cut guavas, 2 pears, 75 acrocomia (little coconut) fruit, 18 tejocotes (similar to crabapples), 26 pounds of sugarcane, 5 pounds of figs, more than 2 pounds of lemongrass, and almost 7 pounds of corn seed.
Agriculture Specialists discovered 9 prohibited plants, including mango, rue, and frangipani. They also stopped various attempts at smuggling in more than 46 pounds of ham, chorizo, and homemade pork rinds.
In addition to stopping prohibited plant and meat products, Agriculture Specialists and CBP officers at the ports of entry stopped several attempts at bringing in live birds, including canaries, parakeets, doves, quail, cardinals, and parrotlets. The birds were turned over the USDA Veterinary Services.
The items and birds were discovered hidden in purses, boxes, bags, and coolers, underneath seats, in luggage, under packages, and even in the spare tire jack compartment.
"Although CBP's primary mission is to protect and secure America's borders against terrorism," said Acting Director of Field Operations Marcelino Borges, "every day CBP employees at our ports of entry, here in Arizona and across the country, are intercepting materials injurious to American agriculture and the environment. We take this responsibility very seriously.
CBP officers at the ports of entry also seized more than 2 pounds of heroin, 5 pounds of cocaine, 100 pounds of marijuana, 13 weapons, and 5500 rounds of ammunition, apprehended 17 people with warrants, and stopped 5 attempts at smuggling people into the country using fraudulent documents, identification belonging to other people, or claiming to be US citizens.