Data Loss Prevention – Log & Event Manager
Wang Wei

In today’s world your network is subject to a multitude of vulnerabilities and potential intrusions and it seems like we see or hear of a new attack weekly. A data breach is arguably the most costly and damaging of these attacks and while loss of data is painful the residual impact of the breach is even more costly.
The loss or leakage of sensitive data can result in serious damage to an organization, including:
Loss of intellectual property
Loss of copyrighted information
Compliance violations
Damage to corporate reputation/brand
Loss of customer loyalty
Loss of future business opportunities
Lawsuits and ongoing litigation
Financial and criminal penalties
To help you protect sensitive data and reduce the risk of data loss, we recommend using a Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) technology such as SolarWinds® Log & Event Manager.
  (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); 
If you’re not familiar with Log & Event Manager (LEM), it’s a comprehensive SIEM product, packaged in an easy-to-use, all-in-one virtual appliance. It’s loaded with out-of-the-box functionality so you can hit the ground running without having to be a security expert! Most importantly, LEM has expert developed features to help with data loss prevention.
Download a free, Fully-Functional, 30 day trial of LEM.
Feature #1 Real-Time Event Correlation
SolarWinds LEM employs a proactive approach to help you identify and respond to threats in real time. LEM automatically collects and aggregates log data from network devices, systems, and applications throughout the IT infrastructure. It then normalizes this data into a consistent format and performs multiple event correlation, along with the distinct ability to set independent activity thresholds per event or per group of events. The end result is security intelligence you can count on and reduced false positives.
Instantly detect security, operational, and compliance issues, including external breaches, insider abuse, policy violations, application availability, performance problems, and more
Get alerted in real time and contain threats at network speed
Leverage over 700 built-in event correlation rules for out-of-the-box visibility and intelligence
Gain immediate insight into network anomalies and suspicious patterns in your environment
Detect and stop zero-day, multi-vector and blended threats
Feature #2 Unauthorized Network Access Prevention
SolarWinds LEM can help protect your network from unauthorized access in multiple ways, including the ability to monitor user activity, such as logon attempts, and then correlate events with other log activity to identify suspicious behavior and malicious activity. LEM can then automatically disable user access. Another key way LEM can prevent access to sensitive data is through its real-time detection and automatic detachment of unauthorized USB devices. Plus, LEM enables you to monitor what files and processes are accessed on the device.
Feature #3 Embedded File Integrity Monitoring
SolarWinds’ SIEM software has real-time File Integrity Monitoring (FIM) for Windows® allowing you to address more compliance requirements and gain deeper security visibility.
Provides intelligence that you can’t get from logs to detect zero-day malware, insider abuse, and stealthy attacks
Addresses key requirements of regulations including PCI DSS, HIPAA, SOX, and more at no extra cost
Deep integration with SIEM provides a complete view of all user activity across files, applications, systems, and networks
Advanced threat techniques and increased regulatory scrutiny demands make attacks harder to detect and audits harder to pass. Logs alone don’t provide the intelligence required to detect today’s advanced threats. Log & Event Manager includes File Integrity Monitoring (FIM) to deliver granular information about file and system access that you can’t get from logs. 
Feature #4 Stay Compliant, Stay Secure
Being in line with IT compliance regulations, such as PCI DSS, GLBA, SOX, NERC CIP, and HIPAA require businesses to protect, track, and control access to and usage of confidential/proprietary information and private customer data. Unfortunately, many organizations treat compliance as just a “checkbox” to pass an audit, instead of focusing on putting truly effective controls in place to better secure their network resources and critical data.
With SolarWinds Log & Event Manager’s real-time log analysis and powerful cross-device/cross-event correlation, you can quickly uncover policy violations that could leave your network vulnerable to a breach. And, with over 300 predefined, customizable reporting templates, you can ensure the right controls are in place to not only maintain compliance, but keep your network and the data it holds secure.
Log & Event Manager for Network Protection and Data Loss Prevention
SolarWinds Log & Event Manager Feature Highlights:
Easy Collection of Network, Security, Machine, Application and Cloud logs
Real-time, In-Memory, Event Correlation for Immediate Threat Detection
Built-in Active Responses for Automated “Hands-Free” Remediation
Automatic USB Device Detection and Detachment for Protecting Sensitive Data
Advanced IT Search and Intuitive Data Visualization for Fast and Easy Forensic Analysis
Predefined, Customizable Templates for Simplified Security, Compliance, and Operations Reporting
Affordable, All-in-One Virtual Appliance for Quick and Easy Deployment and Use
You can download a Free, Fully-Functional, 30 day trial of LEM.
Have something to say about this article? Comment below or share it with us on Facebook, Twitter or our LinkedIn Group.
