Police Arrest 16-year-old Boy Who Hacked CIA Director
Swati Khandelwal

The teenage hacker, who calls himself a member of hacktivist group "Cracka with Attitude," behind the series of hacks on the United States government and its high-level officials, including CIA director, might have finally got arrested.
In a joint effort, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and British police reportedly have arrested a 16-year-old British teenager who they believe had allegedly:
Leaked the personal details of tens of thousands of FBI agents and US Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employees.
Hacked into the AOL emails of CIA director John Brennan.
Hacked into the personal email and phone accounts of the US spy chief James Clapper.
Broke into the AOL emails of the FBI Deputy Director Mark Giuliano.
Federal officials haven't yet released the identity of the arrested teenager, but the boy is suspected of being the lead hacker of Cracka With Attitude, who calls himself Cracka, the South East Regional Organised Crime Unit (SEROCU) told the Daily Dot.
  (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); 
According to the report, Cracka is the same teenage hacker who recently leaked the personal information of 31,000 government agents belonging to nearly 20,000 FBI agents, 9,000 Department of Homeland Security (DHS) officers and some number of DoJ staffers.
Crime Unite Released a Statement
In a statement, the SEROCU confirmed that the unit had arrested a teenager on Tuesday in the East Midlands on suspicion of:
Conspiracy to commit unauthorised access to computer material contrary to Section 1 Computer Misuse Act 1990.
Conspiracy to commit unauthorised access with intent to commit further offences contrary to Section 2 Computer Misuse Act 1990.
Conspiracy to commit unauthorised acts with intent to impair or with recklessness as to the impairing operation of a computer contrary to Section 3 Computer Misuse Act 1990.
Accused Teen: Authorities Ruining My Life
  (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); 
The unit declined to provide any further information on the arrest, but while speaking to Motherboard, the arrested teenager denied being Cracka, saying "I am not who you think I am ;) ;) ;)"
"I am innocent until proven guilty so I have nothing to be worried about," the teen said. "They are trying to ruin my life."
Neither the Department of Justice (DoJ) nor the FBI have yet responded to comment on it. 
Have something to say about this article? Comment below or share it with us on Facebook, Twitter or our LinkedIn Group.
