For Immediate Release:
January 16, 2009
Contact: Special Agent Tony Pettigrew
Number: 617-557-2138
New London Cocaine Trafficker Sentenced to 10 Years in Federal Prison
JAN 16  -- Steven W. Derr, Special Agent in Charge of the Drug Enforcement Administration for New England and Nora R. Dannehy, Acting United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, today announced that HECTOR GONZALEZ, 39, of New London, was sentenced on Tuesday, January 14, by United States District Judge Alvin W. Thompson in Hartford to 120 months of imprisonment, followed by eight years of supervised release. On September 16, 2008, GONZALEZ pleaded guilty to one count of possessing 500 grams or more of cocaine with intent to distribute.
According to documents filed with the Court and statements made in court, on June 25, 2007, law enforcement officers arrested GONZALEZ and Anthony Morse of Gales Ferry in a New London parking lot. A search of GONZALEZ's vehicle, in which GONZALEZ and Morse had been sitting, revealed one kilogram of cocaine. An additional two kilograms of cocaine were seized from Morse's vehicle in the same parking lot. Several telephone calls leading up to this meeting had been intercepted pursuant to a court order in connection with an ongoing investigation of a substantial drug trafficking operation in southeastern Connecticut.
Because GONZALEZ had sustained a State of Connecticut narcotics conviction prior to his involvement in this case, he faced a mandatory minimum sentence of 10 years of imprisonment.
On October 26, 2007, Morse pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute, and to distribute, five kilograms or more of cocaine. He awaits sentencing.
Acting U.S. Attorney Dannehy noted that federal prisoners are required to serve at least 85 percent of their sentenced term of imprisonment and are not eligible for parole.
This matter has been investigated by the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Internal Revenue Service - Criminal Investigation Division, the Norwich Police Department, the New London Police Department, the City of Groton Police Department, the Town of Groton Police Department, the Waterford Police Department, the Stonington Police Department, the Willimantic Police Department and the Connecticut State Police.