Date: April 19, 2012
Contact: DEA Special Agent
Douglas S. Collier, M.A.
Public Information Officer
Tel: (973) 776-1143
Eight Sentenced in Edison, New Jersey Oxycodone Distribution Case
April 19 (Newark, NJ)  - Brian R. Crowell, the Special Agent in Charge of the New Jersey Division of the Drug Enforcement Administration and Paul J. Fishman, the United States Attorney for the District of New Jersey, announced a Manalapan, N.J., man was sentenced today to 48 months in federal prison, the last of eight people sentenced this week for their roles in an oxycodone distribution scheme involving the owner of a Middlesex County pharmacy.
Jason Caracappa, 31, previously pled guilty before U.S. District Judge Susan D. Wigenton to a superseding Indictment charging Caracappa, convicted pharmacist Vincent Hsia -proprietor of Lincoln Pharmacy Network in Edison, N.J. - and others in connection with the distribution of oxycodone, a Schedule II controlled substance. In addition to the prison term, Judge Wigenton sentenced Caracappa to three years supervised release.
Also sentenced by Judge Wigenton this week in connection with the case were:
Marc Calabria, 33, of Nutley, N.J., 51 months in prison, three years of supervised release. 
Angelo Cifelli, 34, Nutley, three years probation and a $2,500 fine. 
Gary Cross, 28, of Roseland, N.J., 20 months in prison, three years of supervised release. 
Keith Thompson, 33, of Newark, 75 months in prison, three years of supervised release. 
Ivan Lugo, 34, of Elizabeth, 84 months in prison, three years supervised release. 
Cheryle Sutter, 31, Carteret, N.J., 12 months in prison, three years of supervised release. 
Ryan Otskey, 36, Lyndhurst, N.J., 57 months in prison, three years of supervised release.
According to documents filed in this case and statements made in court:
The defendants and Hsia, 52, of Flemington, N.J., who was sentenced Feb. 23, 2012, to 
25 years in prison, engaged in a conspiracy to distribute oxycodone. Some of the defendants used stolen, blank prescriptions or prescriptions made out to fictitious patients to obtain oxycodone pills from Hsia at Lincoln Pharmacy. Cifelli was charged with furthering the conspiracy by driving co-conspirators to Lincoln Pharmacy and otherwise assisting with the distribution of oxycodone.
U.S. Attorney Fishman credited special agents with the Drug Enforcement Administration Tactical Diversion Squad, under the direction of special agent in Charge Brian R. Crowell; special agents of the FBI, under the direction of Special Agent in Charge Michael B. Ward; special agents of IRS-Criminal Investigation, under the direction of Acting Special Agent in Charge JoAnn S. Zuniga; the Newark, Elizabeth, and Nutley, New Jersey police departments; and the Essex County Prosecutor's and Sheriff's Offices for the investigation leading to this week's sentencing's.
The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S. Attorney Anthony J. Mahajan of the Narcotics/Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force Unit in Newark.