Seattle NEWS
March 21, 2011
Contact: 
Jodie Underwood
Seattle Division
206 553-5443
Sacramento Men Indicted by Federal Grand Jury for Conspiracy to Distribute Oxycodone
ANCHORAGE, AK. -  Acting Special Agent in Charge, Mark Thomas and United States Attorney Karen L. Loeffler announced on March 21, 2011 that two Sacramento men were indicted by a federal grand jury in Anchorage for conspiracy to distribute and possess with the intent to distribute oxycodone in Juneau, Alaska.
The one-count indictment names Travell Demar Pinkston, 24, and Deandre Tyron Dantzler, 30, residents of Sacramento, California, as co-defendants.
According to the indictment, Pinkston and Dantzler conspired with others to distribute and to possess with the intent to distribute oxycodone in Alaska from November 2008 to September 29, 2010. Dantzler coordinated and organized the activities of the conspiracy. Pinkston arranged the travel of conspirators to carry oxycodone from Sacramento, San Francisco, Oakland and Reno, Nevada to Alaska via commercial air carriers. During the course of the conspiracy, both defendants conspired to distribute at least 7,500 pills of oxycodone transported from the Sacramento area to Juneau for distribution.
The law provides for a maximum total sentence of 20 years in prison, a fine of $1 million, or both. Under the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, the actual sentence imposed will be based upon the seriousness of the offense and the prior criminal history, if any, of the defendants.
Pinkston was arraigned on Friday, March 18, 2010, in Juneau, and was ordered to be detained pending trial. Dantzler has an active warrant for his arrest and his current whereabouts are unknown.
The Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) and the Port of Seattle Police Department conducted the investigation leading to the indictment in this case.
An indictment is only a charge and is not evidence of guilt. A defendant is presumed innocent and is entitled to a fair trial at which the government must prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.